The
Contact
Teaching the
Law of One
Volume I
Source: Ra, an Humble Messenger of the Law of One
Instrument: Carla L. Rueckert
Questioner: Don Elkins
Scribe: Jim McCarty
Relistening Project: Tobey Wheelock
Production and Editing: Gary Bean and Austin Bridges
Ra
The Ra Contact: Teaching the Law of One – Volume 1
PDF Version (Second printing).
Copyright © 2018 L/L Research, Tobey Wheelock
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or used in
any form or by any means—graphic, electronic or mechanical, including
photocopying or information storage and retrieval systems—without
written permission from the copyright holder.
ISBN: 978-1-64356-002-1
Published by L/L Research
Box 5195
Louisville, Kentucky 40255-0195, USA
www.llresearch.org
contact@llresearch.org
Cover art by Aaron Maret
DEDICATION
It would have been an honor for me to work with Don and Carla even
without the Ra Contact. The harmony between the three of us was so
obvious and easy that it felt like old friends coming together again for
another adventure in consciousness. Whatever we did felt like what we
should be doing to be of service in the way that our hearts knew best.
Don was like a big brother who knew the secrets of how to play the game
of life that Carla and I were just learning.
After the Ra contact, and Don’s passing, Carla and I shared a life together
for 28 years as husband and wife, and she became the dearest, sweetest
love of my life. Now that she is also gone, I, with my present-day
companions Gary Bean and Austin Bridges, carry on the work that she
and Don began in 1968 as Love & Light Research.
For all of these reasons this book is dedicated to Donald T. Elkins, whose
intelligence, intuition, and experience with the paranormal perfectly
prepared him to carry on an astounding conversation with those of Ra,
and to Carla L. Rueckert who fearlessly offered her life in service to planet
Earth as she served as the instrument for the Ra contact. Don’s wisdom
and Carla’s love blazed a trail through the veil of forgetting for any who
would become a seeker of truth.
Jim McCarty
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Foreword ................................................................ 6
Acknowledgments................................................... 8
How These Books Came to Be............................. 13
Introduction ......................................................... 14
Note to the Reader ............................................... 23
Ra Contact Sessions
Session 1 ............................................................... 24
Session 2 ............................................................... 31
Session 3 ............................................................... 37
Session 4 ............................................................... 43
Session 5 ............................................................... 51
Session 6 ............................................................... 54
Session 7 ............................................................... 63
Session 8 ............................................................... 71
Session 9 ............................................................... 80
Session 10 ............................................................. 86
Session 11 ............................................................. 94
Session 12 ........................................................... 102
Session 13 ........................................................... 111
Session 14 ........................................................... 118
Session 15 ........................................................... 127
Session 16 ........................................................... 136
Session 17 ........................................................... 150
Session 18 ........................................................... 164
Session 19 ........................................................... 173
Session 20 ........................................................... 182
Session 21 ........................................................... 192
Session 22 ........................................................... 201
Session 23 ........................................................... 209
Session 24 ........................................................... 217
Session 25 ........................................................... 224
Session 26 ........................................................... 229
Session 27 ........................................................... 240
Session 28 ........................................................... 247
Session 29 ........................................................... 254
Session 30 ........................................................... 262
Session 31 ........................................................... 269
TABLE OF CONTENTS 5
Session 32 ........................................................... 278
Session 33 ........................................................... 285
Session 34 ........................................................... 293
Session 35 ........................................................... 300
Session 36 ........................................................... 305
Session 37 ........................................................... 313
Session 38 ........................................................... 318
Session 39 ........................................................... 323
Session 40 ........................................................... 329
Session 41 ........................................................... 335
Session 42 ........................................................... 345
Session 43 ........................................................... 354
Session 44 ........................................................... 361
Session 45 ........................................................... 366
Session 46 ........................................................... 369
Session 47 ........................................................... 374
Session 48 ........................................................... 381
Session 49 ........................................................... 388
Session 50 ........................................................... 394
Session 51 ........................................................... 401
Session 52 ........................................................... 407
Session 53 ........................................................... 414
Session 54 ........................................................... 422
Session 55 ........................................................... 433
Session 56 ........................................................... 440
Photo Gallery...................................................... 444
The Relistening Report ...................................... 460
Glossary.............................................................. 478
Index................................................................... 500
Afterword ........................................................... 538
FOREWORD
There has never been, nor can there ever be, a single unproblematic
definition of what it means to seek the truth. The pathways to knowledge
and to human perfection are as numerous as the stars, and as resistant to
synoptic characterization. If one may speak, therefore, of a unity of truth,
a one truth, one must have opened a gateway to a way of relating to this
problem that transcends all known limitations, and in fact leaves behind
all readily delineated requirements of knowledge itself. From any point of
view achievable to experience, such a gateway can only be hard won; and
to win one’s way to assimilation and integration of such experience is
surely that much harder.
It is thus always something of a miracle—and in any case certainly an
inspiration—when the thick veil that surrounds our human consciousness
thins even a little to afford the most fleeting glimpse of glory. And when
there comes through that veil a finely constellated light so bright that it
positively penetrates, in discretely articulated points, the entire fog of
incarnate existence, that is an occasion worthy of the utmost attention.
To a growing number of seekers of the way, the Ra Contact is just such a
light.
To be sure, the communications contained in this work have a cultural
genre into which they have long since been fitted. They belong to the
category of channeled communication. There is indeed a good supply of
channeled material already available to the seeker of truth, and more
discerning seekers have long since realized that a great deal of careful
discrimination is required when surveying what is on offer. Yet, to report
only on my own experience, the Ra Contact stands alone in this genre as a
source that has stood every test I have been able to put to it. In terms of
scope, in terms of consistency, in terms of depth, and in terms of
inexhaustibility it is without parallel and without peer. But all of these
judgments are merely evaluations from one reader. Each of us must reach
our own conclusions. Let me therefore simply commend to you the text,
conveying to any earnest reader my sincere blessings.
Viewed from the outside, the gatherings of those whose interest in the
Law of One is deep and abiding are somewhat remarkable. Hardly
anywhere else does one find scientists, engineers, philosophers, poets,
mystics, economists, farmers and office managers collected into one circle
of seeking and able to find common ground in what is brought forward. 
FOREWORD 7
That speaks to a multivalence of the material that is quite striking. I know
of no other way to enter into this multivalence than a careful reading of
the text, pondering, one after another, so many turns of phrase that offer
openings onto a cosmic landscape that is staggering in its scope, even
while at the same time they give clues to possibilities for further
exploration.
The story of the three brave adventurers whose collective efforts made this
communication possible is itself a narrative well worth hearing. This
narrative is told in considerable detail, and with as complete a fidelity to
the actual truth of events as I have ever encountered, in Gary L. Bean’s
Tilting at Windmills. The story, it must be admitted, is genuinely
poignant. One learns that an undertaking of the kind necessary to bring
forth the Law of One was not without cost. And that the cost was, indeed,
great for all concerned. I therefore wish to conclude this brief preface by
expressing my gratitude to those intrepid travelers who have gone before
me, and have played a decisive role in opening a clearing filled with love
and light. It is a clearing in which I have learned to stand with others of
like mind, like spirit, and like commitment to seeking that truth which
beckons ever from a place just beyond the reach of the grasping mind, but
not at all remote from the open heart.
Stephen Tyman, PhD
Murphysboro, Illinois
October 10, 2016
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
There are some people without whom this book would not have been
possible, and others without whom this book would not have reached its
full potential.
Thanking the One Infinite Creator may seem unusual, but as Ra
mentioned many times, the One Creator has made all that is made out of
Itself, so this is where I shall start. Thank you, Infinite Creator. Every
word in this book speaks about you as the Author of everything,
everyone, everywhere—in ways mysterious and awesome beyond our
imagining.
Thank you, Ra—all 6.5 million souls that make up your unified
consciousness—for caring enough about each one of us on Earth to speak
with such love, wisdom, power and precision in answering our call for
assistance as we move into the fourth density of love and understanding.
Your words inspire and inform me every day of my life.
As I return my focus to the human realm, there are two giants who pass
through the halls of my heart each and every day. These two heard the
call of the Ra contact and bent every effort, risked everything, and gave
themselves to service just to have this conversation, just to bring a little
clarity, a little illumination, a little perspective to the thirsty seeker and to
this often troubled world.
Don Elkins’s vast intellect, uncanny intuition, and decades of experience
in researching all facets of the paranormal made him the perfect
questioner for carrying on a conversation with the social memory
complex of Ra. He was the wisest person I have ever met. I have not
found an end to the marvel I feel every time I read the questions he asked
Ra.
Carla L. Rueckert’s stunning spiritual fearlessness in risking far more
than her life every time she left her physical body in order to open the
door to the universe, receiving in turn a perspective or philosophy that
may be unique in human history. I thank you and admire you beyond
words for everything you gave the world, and more so, everything you
personally gave me with each smile and every moment of your life shared
with me. I can’t believe I had the privilege of being your companion
during the Ra contact and your husband in our many years together
afterward. Though you are no longer here, I walk everyday with you.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 9
I owe a tremendous debt of gratitude to Tobey Wheelock, who initiated
the Relistening Project many years ago. In this effort he spent years
listening to the cassette recordings of all 106 sessions of the Ra contact—
transcribing, editing, refining, and eventually working with volunteers on
a Re-Relistening Project until he had produced for the world the Lightly
Edited Version, that which is the basis for the text of this book. His
dedication to the integrity of the material is total. Without Tobey’s
Relistening Project this book would not exist. And without his tireless
effort the world would not have the best study tool for the Law of One in
the world, something Gary, Austin, and I have called upon countless
times in our own studies: www.lawofone.info.
And speaking of those volunteers on the Re-Relistening Project, I send
my gratitude to Terry Hsu and a couple others who wished to remain
anonymous. I know the tedious hours you spent on this project made a
more perfect text representation of the great conversation captured on
those cassettes.
I can’t thank Gary Bean enough for all that he has done to make this
book a reality. Starting with the Lightly Edited Version and culminating
in the The Ra Contact, he has led our team in producing, coordinating,
editing, contributing to, and shepherding this material through each stage
of its journey. L/L Research would not function today if not for Gary
Bean. You will not be surprised to hear that I love him dearly, as did
Carla before me.
A long sequence of thanks and love to Austin Bridges, who is an
inseparable and vital part of L/L Research and this book’s journey. From
the thousand decisions needing to be made, to contributions of creativity
and composition, to undertaking the months-long intensive final editing
with Gary and me, to formatting the entire work, managing its printing,
and structuring the Index, Austin’s energy has been an invaluable and
guiding aid to The Ra Contact’s development.
Thank you to Steve Tyman for providing assistance in editing the
Introduction to this book, authoring its Foreword, and helping me to
reignite the channeling service after Carla’s passing.
Thank you a thousand-fold to Joseph Dartez who turned his methodical
mind to systematic reading of the 106 sessions, in turn producing a list of
202 terms. Those terms combined with Carla’s and my own formed the
basis of the extraordinary index accompanying this material.
10 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
And, oh, the glorious Index. Over 9,000 catalogued Q&As! From the
initial list of terms, Gary coordinated a supreme volunteer effort that
literally spanned the globe, from friends in Kentucky, Washington, Ohio,
Colorado, Virginia, and Tennessee, to China, Germany, and Italy. This
treasure of study would not have succeeded were it not for the truly
intensive efforts of Jade Norby, Jochen Blumenthal, Sean Hsu, Fox
Hutt, Joseph Dartez (for yet another round of contributions), Erez Batat,
Gianluca Mosaico, Lana Autio, and Ken Wendt. Thanks also to Jeremy
Weiland who offered technical assistance in automating a part of the
process. And a deep bow to Austin who expended enormous energy
innovating the formatting and building the structure that brought the
Index into its present state of clarity, precision, and perfection.
I would also like to give a double hearty thanks to Sean Hsu. In addition
to his work on the Index, he somehow found time to contribute to
insightful edits to the 106 sessions and yet one more project. Then in the
11th hour I discovered the possibility of adding footnotes to instances
when Ra or Don mentioned “previously covered” information that would
identify where that information was previously covered. The indefatigable
Sean attacked that project with alacrity, finding the right Q&As to the 17
we identified, and then going on to find another 94 instances where Ra or
Don points to previously mentioned material.
I am most grateful to Aaron Maret (lead of the Asheville Law of One
Study Group), who created powerfully evocative covers for all three books
of The Ra Contact. What imagery is best to associate with Ra’s words? Or
would an image-less, solid color cover be most appropriate? Aaron helped
answer these questions by doing what the artist does best: manifesting a
beautiful something from seeming nothing, invoking themes that bespeak
the universality and cosmic, but Earth-centered scope of this philosophy.
He also generously offered some modifications to the books’ interior
layout that makes it shine.
My gratitude extends also to my dear friend Beatriz Gonzales for her
contributions to the Introduction that Gary, Austin, and I wrote, as she
gave me critically important suggestions as how to organize the content of
the thoughts that I wanted to discuss, and to the gifted Diana Roy for
last-minute but critical edits to the same piece.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 11
And then to those band of beings who generously offered to review the
printed proofs of this book, including Fox Hutt, Mary Allen, Jade
Norby, Jeremy Weiland, Sean Hsu, and Garry Fung.
Gary, Austin, and I could not have had better people for these most
tedious and time-consuming jobs—all done with love and devotion to
service to others. As you can tell, this book exists thanks primarily to the
efforts of many volunteers. For any individual we forgot to include in the
above list, please accept our apologies and our sincere gratitude.
And, finally, thank you to all the individuals unnamed here who have
written to L/L Research or Tobey with questions and thoughts about
possible refinements to the text. Though the majority of the work on the
106 sessions was completed by the small number of people listed above,
the whole scope of the project was essentially crowdsourced. It is you, the
reader, who kept Carla and me going after Don’s passing. It is you, the
reader, who shared your enthusiasm and personal testimony of the
transformative and healing effects that this material had upon you,
inspiring and fueling our work to make it available to all.
Jim McCarty
Louisville, KY
Along with many other devoted students of this information, both of our
lives were utterly and irrevocably transformed by Ra’s perspective. The
Law of One philosophy has come to serve as the foundation and
framework of our worldviews and spiritual seekings. Indeed, Gary likes to
say that he would be scraping his knuckles somewhere were it not for this
work.
We obviously have Ra to thank for their singular insight, but it is to Don
Elkins, Carla Rueckert, and, despite his protest, Jim McCarty that we
turn. We have lived with and worked with two of those three. We know
well their history, their personalities, and their energies. We know that
Don, Carla, and Jim gave themselves completely to the contact with Ra
not for the purpose of fame, status, wealth, or acquisition of personal
power, but entirely for the purpose of service. They simply desired to
bring light into this darkened place, to allow love a space to speak to our
hearts. It is still mind-bending to consider what Carla risked in order to
perform this service. Indebtedness is not ultimately a viable concept, yet
12 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
we, and many other spiritual seekers, remain in their debt for the gift that
quenches the thirst of many lifetimes of searching and seeking. Thank
you Carla, Don, and Jim for taking up the mantle of your incarnational
missions with such integrity, steadfast dedication, and purity of heart.
Though Carla participated in the early stages of this book, she had moved
on from this incarnation by the time this work really got underway. So it
was Jim who, for the purposes of creating (and naming) The Ra Contact:
Teaching the Law of One, read through all 106 sessions more times than
we have fingers on our hands. In each step of this book’s development
described above, Jim McCarty graciously lent his input, insight, support,
and joy. And most notably, his friendship.
Gary L. Bean
Austin Bridges
Louisville, KY
HOW THESE BOOKS CAME TO BE
Beginning in the fall of 2004, Tobey Wheelock commenced what would
come to be called “The Relistening Project.” As the name implies, he,
along with the help of volunteers, methodically re-listened to the original
recordings of the 106 sessions of the contact with Ra three times over the
course of eight years. From this effort emerged a brand new transcript
that would become the basis of this book.
After completing the project in March of 2012, Tobey wrote the
“Relistening Report,” meticulously cataloguing the many changes to the
text and sharing something of his journey in the great effort that would
produce what he called The Relistened and the Lightly Edited Versions.
The former is an exact transcript of what is on the audio, all syllables and
sounds included. The latter is a lightly edited version of the same. The
Relistened and Lightly Edited Versions are not derivative of or based
upon the original five published books; instead, they are entirely new
manuscripts taken directly from the source material (i.e., the audio tapes).
The text of The Ra Contact book comes directly from the Lightly Edited
Version. Therefore the great majority of the changes to the Relistened
and Lightly Edited Version (itemized in the “Relistening Report”) have
been carried into this book. However, additional refinements were made
to the text for The Ra Contact. Consequently, the reader may discover
slight discrepancies between the changes catalogued in the report and the
material as it appears in this book.
The Ra Contact is meant to serve as a continuation of the Lightly Edited
project. And in that regard its mission is to provide, as best as possible, an
exact transcript of the actual audio with minor, mostly grammatical edits
in order to improve readability. The two volumes of The Ra Contact
neither negate nor supersede the original five published books. Both sets
will continue to be offered side by side for the reader to choose their form
of reading, each having its own merits.
You may read Tobey’s “Relistening Report” at the end of this book, along
with an Addendum summarizing our additional refinements. His website,
www.lawofone.info, is the single best study tool for this work. We extend
our infinite and heartfelt gratitude to Tobey for his singular dedication to
this project and opening the way to this book.
INTRODUCTION
From January 15, 1981, through March 15, 1984, three dedicated seekers
of truth received the spoken communication in this book. The messages,
as you will discover, came from a civilization of extraterrestrial beings who
identified themselves as Ra. The Ra Contact: Teaching the Law of One
contains the whole, rectified, and now unified record of this three-year
period of contact with Ra.
This introduction does not intend to thoroughly explain the contact or its
philosophy. The purpose of this section is simply to offer the reader a
little context regarding how this contact happened, some background
about the source with whom Don Elkins, Carla Rueckert, and Jim
McCarty were communicating, and a thumbnail sketch of what this
source says about metaphysical reality. This introduction is not essential
to reading and understanding this book; it is offered as a means of
orientation and preparation for the journey to come.
About Ra
In Earth’s ancient history, Ra is known as the Egyptian god of the sun.
They state, however, that when they visited the Egyptians they came as
brothers and sisters, not as gods. They came because that civilization had
developed a culture and a belief system that prepared them to
comprehend the concepts of the Law of One. This readiness for the Law
of One drew those of Ra to them to serve as teachers of these principles.
Ra reports that their efforts to aid that particular culture were
misunderstood and distorted. The Egyptians, particularly the royal elite
who reserved the message only for themselves, robbed the message of its
inherent compassion, distorting the philosophy of the oneness of all
things. Ra consequently removed themselves from the Egyptian
experience, but they continued from then until now to observe Earth’s
development from a distance. It was Ra’s longstanding desire to correct
the distortions introduced to the Law of One during that time period that
led them to make contact with our group.
But that was not their only reason. Ra also made contact with our group
because Earth is nearing the end of a 75,000 year master cycle of
evolution, and many of its population are ready to graduate to the next
evolutionary stage, what Ra calls the fourth density, the density of love 
INTRODUCTION 15
and understanding. They wished to be of aid in this time of transition
and thus responded to the call for service issuing forth from this planet.
Ra said that they are from the sixth density and they are, in their words, a
“social memory complex.” This is what a planetary population becomes
in the densities of evolution beyond our own. In this arrangement, the
thoughts, memories, and experiences of every individual are known and
available to the whole group. The entire social body, then, consists of
many unique individuals who also have access to a shared group
repository of memory and identity.
According to Ra, the population of Earth will birth its own social
memory complex after its graduation to the fourth density is complete.
Just as individuals evolve over time, the social memory complex likewise
evolves, transforming and becoming more unified as the lessons of each
higher density of evolution are successfully grasped. To Ra, as a social
memory complex, there is no distinction between an individual and the
whole group. Thus when we communicated with those of Ra we spoke to
one individualized entity of the social memory complex. Since everyone
in this group accesses a shared mind, it was as if we were communicating
with all 6.5 million entities of the Ra social memory complex.
Ra is also part of a larger group called the Confederation of Planets in the
Service of the One Infinite Creator that consists of many other social
memory complexes from other planets in our local portion of the Milky
Way Galaxy. According to Ra, members of the Confederation have been
offering their services through channeling and other means to various
individuals and groups around the world for some time, their interaction
with this planet stretching back into our deep pre-historical past. Our
group has been in contact with assorted members of this Confederation
since we began in 1962.
The Confederation’s primary message has always been that we live in a
universe of unity, that the world as we perceive it is an illusion, that we are
here to learn how to give and receive love, and that meditation is one of
the principal means of discovering the Creator that exists in all of us.
In the course of this conversation, Ra certainly took responsibility for
their perspective but renounced any authority, indicating that what they
had to share was their perspective only—what they described as a
“somewhat different slant upon the information which is always and ever
the same.” They wished not to be identified as the source of this 
16 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
information. Instead, they asked specifically that they be described as
“humble messengers of the Law of One.” In this statement they
acknowledge their limitations and honor their relationship to the one
truth which transcends (but includes) every seeming portion of identity
throughout the universe:
[We encourage the seeker not to remove] the focus from the One Infinite
Source of love and light, of which we are all messengers, humble and
knowing that we, of ourselves, are but the tiniest portion of the Creator, a
small part of a magnificent entirety of infinite intelligence.
The Law of One and its Cosmology
This is how Ra described the Law of One:
In truth there is no right or wrong. There is no polarity, for all will be, as
you would say, reconciled at some point in your dance through the
mind/body/spirit complex which you amuse yourself by distorting in
various ways at this time. This distortion is not in any case necessary. It is
chosen by each of you as an alternative to understanding the complete
unity of thought which binds all things. You are not speaking of similar or
somewhat like entities or things. You are every thing, every being, every
emotion, every event, every situation. You are unity. You are infinity. You
are love/light, light/love. You are. This is the Law of One.
In this book, Ra brings us face to face with the same basic truth that has
been reported by mystics from all quarters of the world throughout the
ages: the astounding realization that the One Infinite Creator is within us
and is within everything, everywhere. In fact, the Law of One asserts there
is nothing that is not the Creator; there is nothing that is outside of this
underlying unity. Ra reports that the Creator has made the infinite
creation out of Itself for the purpose of knowing and experiencing Itself.
This “intelligent infinity,” as Ra calls it, generates out of its own being the
galaxies, stars, planets, entities such as ourselves, darkness and light, love
and fear, every shade of meaning and experience, every mode of thought
and activity, and everything else real and imagined on every plane of
existence. And It has endowed each and every seeming portion of this
creation with a foundation of free will: the capacity to learn, to grow, to
intend, to adapt, to make evolutionary choices, to chart a return path of
experience to the Creator.
As we travel on our spiritual journeys we exercise free will, choosing to
gradually know ourselves more clearly, and sooner or later we grow into 
INTRODUCTION 17
unity with the One Creator. As all of the infinity of entities in the infinite
creation travel this path, the One Creator comes to know Itself in ways
that are unimaginable and endless through every free will choice that is
ever made by each portion of the creation.
The journey that each soul takes, according to Ra, moves through an
infinite system of "octaves," each octave divided into seven ascending
densities (or concentrations) of light. In the first density of our current
octave, fire and wind teach earth and water to be formed in such a way as
to produce the foundation for subsequent biological life.
The second density is the level of consciousness inhabited by bacteria and
single-celled organisms in the lower stages to plants and animals in the
higher stages. This density's lessons involve transforming from the
random change of first density to a more coherent awareness that
facilitates growth and directed movement. As entities progress through
the second density, they begin to strive toward the next density of selfconsciousness; and as the spirit complex becomes awakened, graduation
to the third density becomes possible.
Earth and its human population are currently approaching the end of the
third-density cycle, according to the Confederation. In this third density,
the density of choice, we have a more highly developed self-awareness that
includes the mind, the body, and, for the first time, a fully activated
spirit. The function of this density is to polarize our consciousness and to
choose our form of love, our form of service. On one end of the spectrum
of polarization is service to self: an exclusive love of self which rejects
universal love and seeks to control, manipulate, exploit, and even enslave
others for the benefit of the self. On the other end of the spectrum is
service to others: a love of not only the self, but of all other-selves. Service
to others seeks and embraces universal, unconditional love, sees the
Creator in all things, and supports the free will of all. Our lived lives are
not so black and white, however, as we strive toward either end of the
spectrum of polarity in consciousness.
In congruency with various wisdom traditions of Earth, Ra communicates
that we are moving toward a "new age," or what Ra would call a harvest
to the fourth density of love and understanding. This is where the social
memory complex is born, where thoughts become things, love becomes
visible, and the positive and negative polarities separate from each other 
18 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
to inhabit environments more suited to their respective and divergent
courses of evolution.
The fifth density is the density of light, wherein wisdom becomes the
focus and criterion for graduation to the next density. The sixth density
balances and unifies the love learned in fourth density with the light
(wisdom) learned in fifth density and produces a power to serve others
that is more effective than that of love or wisdom alone. The seventh
density reaches a realm of experience even more difficult to describe.
According to Ra it is the density of “foreverness,” and here we begin to
move into total harmony with the One Creator. The eighth density
represents the complete coalescence of all of the creation with the One
Creator and can be viewed as the first density of a new octave, similar in
arrangement to the notes on a musical scale. The fruits of this octave will
eventually give birth to another octave of densities, whose fruits will give
birth to another octave of densities, and so on, infinitely.
How the Ra Contact Came to Be
Don Elkins started asking the big questions about life when he was in
junior high school. Amidst the everyday reading, writing, and arithmetic
he was thinking to himself: What is the meaning of life? How big is the
universe, and how does it work? What don’t we know? That desire to
understand and put the puzzle pieces together would persist unabated
throughout his incarnation. In his professional life Elkins would go on to
become a professor of both Mechanical Engineering and Physics, and in
his personal life a determined investigator of UFOs, reincarnation, and
other areas of inquiry that might be cobbled together under the heading
of the paranormal. He realized that modern science fell short of revealing
the fundamental workings and purpose of the universe, so he turned to
these fields for answers that science could not provide.
Carla L. Rueckert was a person gifted since childhood with a soaring
intellect and a profoundly deep and personal faith. On the latter point she
called herself a “cradle Episcopalian” and, eventually, a mystical
Christian. On the former, Carla was a precocious child who excelled in
school, mastering any test offered her. And most centrally, despite tough
circumstances growing up, Carla vibrated with a love of life. She lived to
dance, to sing, to interact with nature, and to embody a life of devotion
and service. She was so committed to the loving viewpoint that people
often took her as innocent or naïve, compelling from some a desire to 
INTRODUCTION 19
protect and guard Carla against a world they felt was less pure than she
was.
In late 1961 Don was given a small, brown volume, creatively titled The
Brown Notebook, which had been compiled by Walt Rogers of Detroit,
Michigan, a fellow who previously experienced a face-to-face encounter
with a UFO entity. After the encounter, Mr. Rogers displayed “lingering
telepathic contact” with this entity, a phenomenon that frequently was
reported in similar encounters from the 1950s. Rogers’s compiled brown
notebook contained information about the metaphysical nature of reality
from alleged extraterrestrial sources. It also described how a group of
people who meditated together on a frequent basis could receive this sort
of information via telepathic contact with extraterrestrial entities. Elkins
was so thoroughly impressed with the correlations between the channeled
material in the notebook and his own work that, based on this
information, he decided to try an experiment with a dozen of his physics
students in Louisville, Kentucky.
News of that reached the ears of a girlfriend of one of those students. She
had recently developed a driving interest in silence and love of
meditation, so she asked to attend. Her name was Carla L. Rueckert.
Don didn’t tell the group what might happen, only that something
interesting could possibly occur if they meditated together. He was
actually attempting to conduct a scientific experiment to see if the
students would receive extraterrestrial telepathic contact without
prompting. After some time had elapsed, and no definitive results were
produced, Walt Rogers visited the group and channeled from his source,
Hatonn, the entity with whom he had experienced the face-to-face
encounter. Hatonn said that they had been trying to channel through
some of Don’s group, but the students were not aware that the
impressions they had been receiving—but not verbalizing—were from
extraterrestrials. Elkins felt that this event nullified the scientific validity
of the experiment, but it did begin producing results. After this visit
everyone in the group, except Carla, learned how to channel; she
preferred silent meditation.
Carla’s and Don’s respective courses after this meeting took them on
different paths for some time, but they would eventually reunite and
officially join together upon a shared mission of research and seeking in
1968. Two years later they would form the L/L Company, changing its 
20 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
name to L/L Research in 1976. And it was in 1974—twelve years after
Carla attended Don’s first channeling experiment—that Don asked Carla
to take up the channeling service herself. Not coincidentally this was the
same year that Elkins began to actually preserve (not throw away or
recycle) the cassette recordings of the channelings. The messages took a
qualitative leap forward thanks to Carla’s aptitude in channeling coupled
with the refinements she made to Don's rudimentary channeling
protocols. Among these refinements, Carla developed the crucial
procedures of tuning the instrument and challenging the contact that
became hallmarks of L/L Research’s style of channeling.
In 1978, Jim McCarty was living off the grid in a log cabin that he built
on his 132 acres of land in the woods of central Kentucky. One evening,
while he was listening on his battery-powered radio to station WKQQ
broadcasting from Lexington, Kentucky, he heard an interview with Don
Elkins and Carla L. Rueckert on the topic of UFOs. Fascinated, Jim
hoped to meet them one day. A year later, his wish came true when he
was introduced to Don and Carla by fellow homesteaders who knew
them. After driving to Louisville each Sunday night for a year to attend
their channeling meditations, Don and Carla invited Jim to join them to
help with their research. Jim moved in with them on December 23, 1980.
Twenty-three days later, on January 15, 1981, while Carla was teaching a
student how to channel, a voice spoke through Carla and said, “I am Ra.”
Prior to this session all of Carla’s channeling had been done consciously,
but when serving as an instrument to channel Ra, she went completely
unconscious. In a way that was never fully understood by Don, Carla, or
Jim, she left her body for the Ra contact. Ra was then able to remotely
and mechanically operate Carla’s vocal chords to produce replies to Don's
questions. For every subsequent of the 105 sessions following the first
one, Carla would slip into unconsciousness, completely unaware of what
was coming through her. It wasn’t until session 23 that Don began
showing her the transcripts of Ra's words. He had previously kept them
from her to preserve the scientific viability of the contact.
The Ra contact was such a quantum leap forward in depth of insight and
breadth of vision that Don, Carla, and Jim devoted themselves
completely to this contact for the next three years and two months. 1
 1 To read a more in-depth account of the events that led up to the contact with Ra,
see the Resource Series.
INTRODUCTION 21
The Conversation with Ra
Ra’s style of contact was question-and-answer only. They felt that this
format was the best to ensure that the free will of each person in the
group was not abridged. Ra described their contact as “narrow band,”
which meant a few things: one, that considerable focus and discipline
were required to maintain their contact; two, that the quality of the
information was of much greater precision and depth than was available
through conscious channeling; and three, that they wished to focus
principally upon philosophy and timeless spiritual principles, which
meant avoiding transient information that had no lasting value.
Ra chose Don, Carla, and Jim to communicate with because, of course,
Don and Carla had been practicing and refining the process of
channeling for years. But more fundamentally they chose these three
seekers because, as a group, they enjoyed significant, sustained, almost
effortless harmony. Of equal importance was Carla’s absolute purity of
desire and total dedication to be of service to the One Infinite Creator,
especially through communication, and more especially through
channeling. These factors supported the Ra contact in a stable manner
that would eventually produce 106 sessions exploring the Law of One.
The preparations for contact with Ra began the night before each session
was to be held. Don, Carla, and Jim would meditate together and then go
over the previous session, fashioning new questions to pose to Ra. It was
discovered that sexual energy transfers lengthened the Ra sessions by
increasing Carla’s vital energies, so Carla and Jim, having already
developed an intimate relationship, would dedicate this transfer to the
One Creator and to the Ra contact. On the morning of the session, Don,
Carla, and Jim would have a light breakfast, and then Jim would give
Carla a back massage to stave off the arthritic pain that would eventually
come from her lying motionless for about an hour.
Between breakfast and the session, they would meditate together in the
living room, and during this meditation Don would often receive another
question or two to ask Ra. They would then retire to the Ra room and
situate Carla on the bed in the middle of the room. Jim would set up the
three tape recorders to ensure a successful recording. Don would measure
what Ra called the “appurtenances”—the Bible, incense, chalice of water
and candle—to be sure that they were in the optimal placement, per Ra’s
instructions. (These items were chosen by Ra due to their personal
significance to Carla, as she had served on her church’s altar guild and 
22 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
had dressed the altar with these items each Sunday. They were a great
comfort to her as she left her body.)
Ra gave the group a ritual of protection called the Circle of One in which
Don and Jim would walk around Carla while repeating the words that
reflected their desire to be of service to others. Then Don would take his
chair and review the questions for Ra, and Jim would take his chair and
begin a meditation that would last for the duration of the session. He
would visualize light moving through Carla’s energy centers from the top
of her head through the bottoms of her feet. Within a minute or two after
completing the Circle of One, Ra would begin the session.
During the three year contact with Ra, Don was able to ask over 2,600
questions of Ra. Their replies allowed him to fit together many of the
puzzle pieces that he needed to finally answer his biggest, most pressing
questions.
The Seeker Seeks the One
Ra said that each of us is a seeker of truth. As we strengthen our will to
seek the truth and our faith that we shall find love in ourselves and in the
world around us, we also will surely find our true nature, which is another
way of saying, the One Infinite Creator. As Ra said:
The seeker seeks the One. This One is to be sought, as we have said, by the
balanced and self-accepting self, aware both of its apparent distortions and
its total perfection. Resting in this balanced awareness, the entity then
opens the self to the universe which it is. The light energy of all things may
then be attracted by this intense seeking, and wherever the inner seeking
meets the attracted cosmic prana, realization of the One takes place.
During our channeling sessions, the Confederation almost always prefaces
each session by advising seekers to consider the messages carefully and to
then use their own discernment to determine what is helpful and true for
oneself, and leave the rest behind. We echo this sentiment to readers of
this book, encouraging all who read Ra's words to approach them with an
open yet discerning mind. We used the word “true” above but remind
you that you are the truth that you seek; no message, philosophy, or any
combination of words can ever equal or substitute for who you are.
Blessings on your journey of seeking the One Infinite Creator in yourself,
in your friends and family, and in the world around you.
NOTE TO THE READER
When Don, Carla and I were having these sessions with Ra back in the
early ’80s we knew that we were living the best days of our lives. We
knew that this work was the primary reason that we were on this Earth.
We could hardly believe our good luck to be involved with extraterrestrial
entities who spoke so eloquently, so precisely, and so profoundly about
the nature of creation, how we all evolve through it, the meaning of life,
and how love, light, and unity are the basic building blocks of all things.
Quite simply, Ra spoke the language of our hearts and our souls, and we
vibrated in harmony with everything that they had to say.
Over the years we have found that there is a small community of seekers
of truth who also have this powerful sympathetic vibration with Ra’s
information. If you are one of these people, welcome to our family. Even
if we never meet, it’s good to know that you are here. In our shared
service to the One Infinite Creator we are always together, no matter
what the appearance of our physical realities may seem to be. So we send
our love and light to you and ask that you share your love and light with
everyone that you meet in all present and future life experiences.
Jim McCarty
SESSION 1
JANUARY 15, 1981
1.0 R A I am Ra. I have not spoken through this instrument before. We had to
wait until she was precisely tuned, as we send a narrow-band vibration.
We greet you in the love and in the light of our Infinite Creator.
We have watched your group. We have been called to your group, for
you have a need for the diversity of experiences in channeling which go
with a more intensive, or as you might call it, advanced approach to the
system of studying the patterns of the illusions of your body, your mind,
and your spirit, which you call seeking the truth. We hope to offer you a
somewhat different slant upon the information which is always and ever
the same.
The Confederation of Planets in the Service of the Infinite Creator has
only one important statement. That statement, my friends, as you know,
is: “All things, all of life, all of the creation is part of One Original
Thought.”
We will exercise each channel if we are able to. The reception of our
beam is a somewhat more advanced feat than some of the more broad
vibration channels opened by other members for more introductory and
intermediate work.
Let us for a moment consider thought. What is it, my friends, to take
thought? Took you then thought today? What thoughts did you think
today? What thoughts were part of the Original Thought today? In how
many of your thoughts did the creation abide? Was love contained? And
was service freely given?
You are not part of a material universe. You are part of a thought. You are
dancing in a ballroom in which there is no material. You are dancing
thoughts. You move your body, your mind, and your spirit in somewhat
eccentric patterns, for you have not completely grasped the concept that
you are part of the Original Thought.
We would at this time transfer to an instrument known as Don. I am Ra.
[Two-minute pause.]
SESSION 1 25
I am Ra. I am again with this instrument. We are close to initiating a
contact but are having difficulty penetrating a certain mental tension and
distraction that is somewhat characteristic of this channel. We will,
therefore, describe the type of vibration which is being sent. The
instrument will find us entering the energy field at a slight angle towards
the back of the top of the head in a narrow but strong area of intensity.
We are not able to offer any conditioning due to our own transmitting
limitations. Therefore, if the instrument can feel this particular effect he
may then speak our thoughts as they come to him. We will again attempt
this contact. I am Ra.
[Ninety-second pause.]
This instrument is resisting our contact. However, we assure her that we
are satisfied that contact with the one known as Don is not at this time
preferable to that instrument. We will, therefore, move on to the one
known as Leonard. Again we caution the instrument that it is a narrowband communication which is felt as a vibration entering the aura. We
will now transfer this contact. I am Ra.
[Ninety-second pause.]
I am Ra. We greet you once more in the love and the light of our Infinite
Creator. We ask that you be patient with us, for we are a difficult channel
to receive. However, we may perhaps add some dimensions to your
understanding.
At this time we would be glad to attempt to speak to any subject or
question which those entities in the room may have potential use in the
requesting.
1.1 QUEST IONER It seems members of the Confederation have a specific
purpose. Is this true with you, and if so, what is your purpose?
R A I am Ra. We communicate now. We, too, have our place. We are not
those of the Love [density] or of the Light [density].1 We are those who
are of the Law of One. In our vibration the polarities are harmonized, the
 1 The word “density” was added here to add clarity to what we believe to be Ra’s
intended meaning. The fourth density is the density of love and understanding. The
fifth density is the density of light. Ra is of the sixth density where love and light
are unified.
26 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
complexities are simplified, and the paradoxes have their solution. We are
one. That is our nature and our purpose.
We are old upon your planet and have served with varying degrees of
success in transmitting the Law of One, of Unity, of Singleness to your
peoples. We have walked your earth. We have seen the faces of your
peoples. This is not so with many of the entities of the Confederation.
We found it was not efficacious.
However, we then felt the great responsibility of staying in the capacity of
removing the distortions and powers that had been given to the Law of
One. We will continue in this until your, shall we say, cycle is
appropriately ended. If not this one, then the next. We are not a part of
time, and thus are able to be with you in any of your times.
Does this give you enough information from which to extract our
purpose, my brother?
1.2 QUESTIONER Yes, it does. Thank you.
R A We appreciate your vibration. Is there another query?
1.3 QUESTIONER I’ve heard of the name “Ra” in connection with the
Egyptians. Are you connected with that Ra in any way?
R A I am Ra. Yes, the connection is congruency. May we elucidate?
1.4 QUESTIONER Please do.
R A What do you not understand?
1.5 QUESTIONER Could you give me a little more detail about your role with
the Egyptians?
R A I am Ra. The identity of the vibration Ra is our identity. We as a
group, or what you would call a social memory complex, made contact
with a race of your planetary kind which you call Egyptians. Others from
our density made contact at the same time in South America, and the socalled “lost cities” were their attempts to contribute to the Law of One.
We spoke to one who heard and understood and was in a position to
decree the Law of One. However, the priests and peoples of that era
quickly distorted our message, robbing it of the, shall we say, compassion
with which unity is informed by its very nature. Since it contains all, it
cannot abhor any.
SESSION 1 27
When we were no longer able to have appropriate channels through
which to enunciate the Law of One, we removed ourselves from the now
hypocritical position which we had allowed ourselves to be placed in. And
other myths, shall we say, other understandings having more to do with
polarity and the things of your vibrational complex, again took over in
that particular society complex.
Does this form a sufficient amount of information, or could we speak
further?
1.6 QUESTIONER [Inaudible]
R A Is there another query?
1.7 QUEST IONER [The question was lost because the questioner was sitting too far
from the tape recorder to be recorded.]
R A I am Ra. Consider, if you will, that the universe is infinite. This has
yet to be proven or disproven, but we can assure you that there is no end
to your selves, your understanding, what you would call your journey of
seeking, or your perceptions of the creation.
That which is infinite cannot be many, for many-ness is a finite concept.
To have infinity you must identify or define that infinity as unity;
otherwise, the term does not have any referent or meaning. In an Infinite
Creator there is only unity. You have seen simple examples of unity. You
have seen the prism which shows all colors stemming from the sunlight.
This is a simplistic example of unity.
In truth there is no right or wrong. There is no polarity, for all will be, as
you would say, reconciled at some point in your dance through the
mind/body/spirit complex which you amuse yourself by distorting in
various ways at this time. This distortion is not in any case necessary. It is
chosen by each of you as an alternative to understanding the complete
unity of thought which binds all things.
You are not speaking of similar or somewhat like entities or things. You
are every thing, every being, every emotion, every event, every situation.
You are unity. You are infinity. You are love/light, light/love. You are.
This is the Law of One.
May we enunciate this law in more detail?
1.8 QUESTIONER [Inaudible]
28 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A Is there another query at this time?
1.9 QUESTIONER Can you say anything about the coming planetary changes?
R A I am Ra. I preferred to wait until this instrument had again reached
the proper state of depth of singleness or one-pointedness before we
spoke.
The changes are very, very trivial. We do not concern ourselves with the
conditions which bring about harvest.
1.10 QUESTIONER Another question. Is it possible to create any acceleration of
understanding [in] other entities [or are] all efforts . . . efforts by the
individual on himself accelerating his understanding? In other words, if
an individual tries to act as a catalyst in general to increase the awareness
of planetary consciousness, is he doing nothing but acting upon himself,
or is it possible [inaudible]?
R A I am Ra. We shall answer your question in two parts, both of which
are important equally.
Firstly, you must understand that the distinction between yourself and
others is not visible to us. We do not consider that a separation exists
between the consciousness-raising efforts of the distortion which you
project as a personality, and the distortion which you project as an other
personality. Thus, to learn is the same as to teach unless you are not
teaching what you are learning; in which case you have done you/they
little or no good. This understanding should be pondered by your
mind/body/spirit complex as it is a distortion which plays a part in your
experiences at this nexus.
To turn to the second part of our response, may we state our
understanding, limited though it is. Group-individuated consciousness is
that state of sharing understanding with the other distortions of
mind/body/spirit complexes, which are within the evident reach of the
mind/body/spirit complex individual or group. Thus, we are speaking to
you and accepting both our distortions and your own in order to
enunciate the laws of creation, more especially the Law of One.
We are not available to many of your peoples, for this is not an easily
understood way of communication or type of philosophy. However, our
very being is hopefully a poignant example of both the necessity and the
near-hopelessness of attempting to teach.
SESSION 1 29
Each of those in this group is striving to use, digest, and diversify the
information which we are sending this instrument into the channels of
the mind/body/spirit complex without distortion. The few whom you
will illuminate by sharing your light are far more than enough reason for
the greatest possible effort. To serve one is to serve all.
Therefore, we offer the question back to you to state that indeed it is the
only activity worth doing: to learn/teach or teach/learn. There is nothing
else which is of aid in demonstrating the Original Thought except your
very being, and the distortions that come from the unexplained,
inarticulate, or mystery-clad being are many. Thus, to attempt to discern
and weave your way through as many group mind/body/spirit distortions
as possible among your peoples in the course of your teaching is a very
good effort to make. We can speak no more valiantly of your desire to
serve.
May we speak in any other capacity upon this subject?
1.11 QUESTIONER Will you be available for communication? Can we call on
you in the future?
R A I am Ra. We have good contact with this instrument because of her
recent experiences with trance. She is to be able to communicate our
thoughts in your future. However, we advise care in disturbing the
channel for a few moments, and then the proper procedure for aiding an
instrument who has, to some extent, the need of re-entering the
mind/body/spirit complex which the instrument has chosen for the life
experience of this time/space. Do you understand how to nurture this
instrument?
1.12 QUESTIONER No. Could you explain it?
R A We suggest first a brief period of silence.
Then the repetition of the instrument’s vibratory complex of sound in
your density which you call name. Repeat until an answer is obtained.
Then the laying on of the hands at the neck region for a brief period so
that the instrument may recharge batteries which are not, shall we say,
full of the essence of this particular field at this time.
And finally, a gift of water into which the love of all present has been
given. This will restore this entity, for her distortions contain great 
30 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
sensitivity towards the vibrations of love, and the charged water will effect
comfort.
Do you now understand?
1.13 QUESTIONER Not completely.
R A I am Ra. We search your mind to find the vibration “Alrac.” It is this
vibration from you which contains the largest amount of what you would
call love. Others would call this entity “Carla.”
The charging of the water is done by those present placing their hands
over the glass and visualizing the power of love entering the water. This
will charge that very effective medium with those vibrations.
This instrument is, at this time, quite fatigued. However, her heart is such
that she continues to remain open to us and useful as a channel. This is
why we have spent the time/space explaining how the distortions of what
you may call fatigue may be ameliorated.
Under no circumstances should this instrument be touched until she has
responded to her name. I do not wish to take this instrument beyond her
capacity for physical energy. It grows low. Therefore, I must leave this
instrument.
I leave you in the glory and peace of unity. Go forth in peace, rejoicing in
the power of the One Creator. I am Ra.
SESSION 2
JANUARY 20, 1981
2.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of our Infinite Creator. I
am with this mind/body/spirit complex which has offered itself for a
channel. I communicate with you.
Queries are in order in your projections of mind-distortion at this
time/space. Thusly would I assure this group that my own social memory
complex has one particular method of communicating with those few
who may be able to harmonize their distortions with ours, and that is to
respond to queries for information. We are comfortable with this format.
May the queries now begin.
2.1 QUESTIONER I’m guessing that there are enough people who would
understand what you are saying, interested enough, for us to make a book
of communications with it, and I wondered if you would agree to this, us
making a book. And if so, I was thinking that possibly a bit of historical
background on yourself would be in order.
R A I am Ra. The possibility of communication, as you would call it, from
the One to the One through distortion acceptable for meaning, is the
reason we contacted this group. There are few who will grasp, without
significant distortion, that which we communicate through this
connection with this mind/body/spirit complex.
However, if it be your desire to share our communications with others,
we have the distortion towards a perception that this would be most
helpful in regularizing and crystallizing your own patterns of vibration
upon the levels of experience which you call the life. If one is illuminated,
are not all illuminated? Therefore, we are oriented towards speaking for
you in whatever supply of speakingness you may desire. To teach/learn is
the Law of One in one of its most elementary distortions.
2.2 QUESTIONER Could you tell us something of your historical background,
your earlier times in the illusion, possibly your incarnation on this planet
that you spoke of before, and contact with earlier races on this planet?
Then we would have something to start with in writing this book.
R A I am Ra. We are aware that your mind/body is calculating the proper
method of performing the task of creating a teach/learning instrument. 
32 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
We are aware that you find our incarnate, as you call it, state of interest.
We waited for a second query so as to emphasize that the time/space of
several thousand of your years creates a spurious type of interest. Thus in
giving this information, we ask the proper lack of stress be placed upon
our experiences in your local space/time. The teach/learning which is our
responsibility is philosophical rather than historical. We shall now
proceed with your request which is harmless if properly evaluated.
We are those of the Confederation who, eleven thousand of your years
ago, came to two of your planetary cultures which were at that time
closely in touch with the creation of the One Creator. It was our naïve
belief that we could teach/learn by direct contact, and the free-will
distortions of individual feeling or personality were in no danger, we
thought, of being disturbed, as these cultures were already closely aligned
with a[n] all-embracing belief in the live-ness or consciousness of all.
We came and were welcomed by the peoples whom we wished to serve.
We attempted to aid them in technical ways having to do with the
healing of mind/body/spirit-complex distortions through the use of the
crystal, appropriate to the distortion, placed within a certain appropriate
series of ratios of time/space material. Thus were the pyramids created.
We found that the technology was reserved largely for those with the
effectual mind/body distortion of power. This was not intended by the
Law of One. We left your peoples. The group that was to work with
those in the area of South America, as you call that portion of your
sphere, gave up not so easily. They returned. We did not. However, we
have never left your vibration due to our responsibility for the changes in
consciousness we had first caused and then found distorted in ways not
relegated to the Law of One. We attempted to contact the rulers of the
land to which we had come, that land which you call Egypt, or in some
areas, the Holy Land.
In the Eighteenth Dynasty, as it is known in your records of space/time
distortions, we were able to contact a pharaoh, as you would call him.
The man was small in life-experience on your plane and was a . . . what
this instrument would call, wanderer. Thus, this mind/body/spirit
complex received our communication-distortions and was able to blend
his distortions with our own.
This young entity had been given a vibratory complex of sound which
vibrated in honor of a prosperous god, as this mind/body complex, which 
SESSION 2 33
we call instrument for convenience, would call “Amun.” The entity
decided that this name, being in honor of one among many gods, was not
acceptable for inclusion in his vibratory sound complex. Thus, he
changed his name to one which honored the sun disc. This distortion,
called “Aten,” was a close distortion to our reality as we understand our
own nature of mind/body/spirit-complex distortion. However, it does not
come totally into alignment with the intended teach/learning which was
sent. This entity, Akhenaten, became convinced that the vibration of One
was the true spiritual vibration, and thus decreed the Law of One.
However, this entity’s beliefs were accepted by very few. His priests gave
lip service only, without the spiritual distortion towards seeking. The
peoples continued in their beliefs. When this entity was no longer in this
density, again the polarized beliefs in the many gods came into their own,
and continued so until the one known as Muhammad delivered the
peoples into a more intelligible distortion of mind/body/spirit
relationships.
Do you have a more detailed interest at this time?
2.3 QUESTIONER We are very interested in the entire story that you have to
tell and in getting into the Law of One in quite some detail. There will be
several questions that I’ll ask as we go along that may or may not be
related directly to understanding the Law of One. However, I believe that
the proper way of presenting this as a teach/learning vehicle to the
population of the planet that will read it, at this time, is to investigate
different facets of what you tell us.
You spoke of crystal healing. (One other thing I might mention is that
when the instrument becomes fatigued we want to cut off
communication and resume it at a later time after the instrument is
recharged.) And if the instrument is suitable at this time I would like a
little discussion of the crystal healing that you mentioned.
R A I am Ra. The principle of crystal healing is based upon an
understanding of the hierarchical nature of the structure of the illusion
which is the physical body, as you would call it. There are crystals which
work upon the energies coming into the spiritual body; there are crystals
which work upon the distortions from spirit to mind; there are crystals
which balance the distortions between the mind and the body. All of
these crystal healings are charged through purified channels. Without the 
34 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
relative crystallization of the healer working with the crystal, the crystal
will not be properly charged.
The other ingredient is a proper alignment with the energy fields of the
planet upon which you dwell, and the holistic or cosmic distortions or
streamings which enter the planetary aura in such a manner that an
appropriate ratio of shapes and placement within these shapes is of
indicated aid in the untangling or balancing process.
To go through the various crystals to be used would be exhaustive to this
instrument, although you may ask us if you wish in another session. The
delicacy, shall we say, of the choosing of the crystal is very critical and, in
truth, a crystalline structure such as a diamond or ruby can be used by a
purified channel who is filled with the love/light of One in almost any
application.
This, of course, takes initiation, and there have never been many to
persevere to the extent of progressing through the various distortion
leavings which initiation causes.
May we further inform you in any fairly brief way upon this or another
subject?
2.4 QUESTIONER Yes. You mentioned that the pyramids were an outgrowth of
this. Could you expand a little bit on— Were you responsible for the
building of the pyramid, and what was the purpose of the pyramid?
R A I am Ra. The larger pyramids were built by our ability using the
forces of One. The stones are alive. It has not been so understood by the
mind/body/spirit [complex] distortions of your culture. The purposes of
the pyramids were two:
Firstly, to have a properly oriented place of initiation for those who
wished to become purified or initiated channels for the Law of One.
Two, we wished then to carefully guide the initiates in developing a
healing of the people whom they sought to aid and the planet itself.
Pyramid after pyramid, charged by the crystal and initiate, were designed
to balance the incoming energy of the One Creation with the many and
multiple distortions of the planetary mind/body/spirit. In this effort we
were able to continue work that brothers within the Confederation had
effected through building of other crystal-bearing structures and thus 
SESSION 2 35
complete a ring, if you will, of these about the earth’s, as this instrument
would have us vibrate it, surface.
This instrument begins to lose energy. We ask for one more query or
subject, and then we shall take our leave for this time/space.
2.5 QUESTIONER You might mention that . . . there was originally a capstone
on the pyramid at the top, what was it made of, and how you moved the
heavy blocks to build the pyramid. What technique was used for that?
R A I am Ra. I request that we be asked this question in our next
worktime, as you would term the distortion sharing that our energies
produce.
If you have any questions about the proper use of this mind/body/spirit
[complex], we would appreciate your asking them now.
2.6 QUESTIONER Consider them asked. I mean, I don’t have anything to go
on. What is the proper use of this instrument? What should we do to
maximize her ability to . . . comfort, rejuvenation, etc.?
R A I am Ra. We are pleased that you asked this question, for it is not our
understanding that we have the right/duty to share our perceptions on
any subject but philosophy without direct question. However, this
mind/body/spirit [complex] is not being correctly used and therefore is
experiencing unnecessary distortions of body in the area of fatigue.
The vibrations may well be purified by a simple turning to the Circle of
One and the verbal vibration while doing so of the following dialogue:
Question: “What is the Law?”
Answer: “The Law is One.”
Question: “Why are we here?”
Answer: “We seek the Law of One.”
Question: “Why do we seek Ra?”
Answer: “Ra is an humble messenger of the Law of One.”
Both together: “Rejoice then, and purify this place in the Law of One. Let
no thought-form enter the circle we have walked about this instrument,
for the Law is One.”
36 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
The instrument at this time should be in trance. The proper alignment is
the head pointed twenty degrees north-by-northeast. This is the direction
from which the newer, or New Age, distortions of love/light, which are
less distorted, are emanating from, and this instrument will find comfort
therein. This is a sensitive instrument, by which we mean the distortions
which enter her mind/body/spirit complex come from any of her senses.
Thus, it is well to do the following:
Place at the entity’s head a virgin chalice of water.
To the center, the book most closely aligned with the instrument’s mental
distortions which are allied most closely with the Law of One, that being
the Bible that she touches most frequently.
To the other side of the Bible, a small amount of cense, or incense, in a
virgin censer.
To the rear of the book symbolizing One, opened to the Gospel of John,
Chapter One, a white candle.
The instrument would be strengthened by the wearing of a white robe.
The instrument shall be covered and prone, the eyes covered.
We feel that, though this is a complex of activity/circumstance and may
seem very distorted from a purposeful teach/learning experience, these
elaborations on the technique of trance will ease the mind distortions of
those about the instrument as they perceive improvement in the
instrument’s distortions with regard to fatigue. We add only that if these
teach/learning sessions are held during time/space during which your sunbody does not light your room that it is best to call the instrument before
the lighting of the illuminatory mechanism.
I am Ra. I leave you in the glory and the peace of the One Creator.
Rejoice in the love/light, and go forth in the power of the One Creator.
In joy, we leave you. Adonai.
SESSION 3
JANUARY 21, 1981
3.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the One Infinite
Creator. I communicate with you now.
3.1 QUESTIONER My first question is, did we correctly perform the ritual for
starting the communication?
R A I am Ra. The placement of the artifacts designed to balance the
instrument should be placed at the instrument’s head for the least
distortion of effect. The remainder of the beginning account of purpose is
quite acceptable, for those speaking desire to serve. Otherwise, the
attendant emphasis in mind complexities would not have been effected
properly.
We caution you to guard against those who are not wishing to serve
others above all else from taking part in the beginning, or in lending their
distortions of mind/body/spirit complex to any session, as we should then
be unable to properly blend our distortions with those of this instrument.
3.2 QUESTIONER Should I move the Bible, candle, and incense at this time?
R A I am Ra. This would be appropriate.
3.3 QUESTIONER [After moving the items.] Is this the proper position?
R A I am Ra. Please correct the angle of the incense so that it is
perpendicular to the plane of twenty degrees north-by-northeast.
3.4 QUESTIONER [After making the correction.] Is this satisfactory?
R A Please check [by] your eye to make fine correction. We will explain
the process by which this becomes a significant distortion balancer.
The incense acts as energizer to the physical body of this instrument,
signifying its humanity. This is, therefore, a necessity that the wafted
smoke is perceived from the same relative angle as the instrument
perceives the opened Bible, balanced by the lighted candle signify[ing]
love/light and light/love and, therefore, give the mental and emotional,
shall we call it, distortion complex of this instrument the sight of paradise 
38 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
and peace which it seeks. Thus energized from the lower to the higher,
the instrument becomes balanced and does not grow fatigued.
We appreciate your concern, for this will enable our teach/learning to
proceed more easily.
3.5 QUESTIONER Does it appear correctly aligned now?
R A I judge it within limits of acceptability.
3.6 QUESTIONER At the last session we had two questions we were saving for
this session: one having to do with the possible capstone of the Great
Pyramid at Giza; the other with how you moved the heavy blocks. I know
these questions are of no importance at all with respect to the Law of
One, but it was my judgment, which you may correct, that this would
provide an easy entry for the reader of the material. We are very grateful
for your contact and will certainly take suggestions about how we should
proceed with this. This is just one guess.
R A I am Ra. I will not suggest the proper series of questions. This is your
prerogative as free agent of the Law of One, having learn/understood that
our social memory complex cannot effectually discern the distortions of
the societal mind/body/spirit complex of your peoples. We wish now to
fulfill our teach/learning honor/responsibility by answering what is asked.
This only will suffice, for we cannot plumb the depths of the distortion
complexes which infect your peoples.
The first question, therefore, is the capstone. We iterate the
unimportance of this type of data.
The so-called Great Pyramid had two capstones. One was of our design
and was of smaller and carefully contrived pieces of the material upon
your planet which you call “granite.” This was contrived for crystalline
properties and for the proper flow of your atmosphere via a type of what
you would call “chimney.”
At a time when we as a people had left your density, the original was
taken away and a more precious one substituted. It consisted, in part, of a
golden material. This did not change the properties of the pyramid, as
you call it, at all, and was a distortion due to the desire of a few to
mandate the use of the structure as a royal place only.
Do you wish to query further upon this first question? 
SESSION 3 39
3.7 QUESTIONER What did you mean by chimney? What was its specific
purpose?
R A There is a proper flow of your atmosphere which, though small,
freshens the whole of the structure. This was designed by having air-flow
ducts, as this instrument might call them, situated so that there was a
freshness of atmosphere without any disturbance or draft.
3.8 QUESTIONER How were the blocks moved?
R A I am Ra. You must picture the activity within all that is created. The
energy is, though finite, quite large compared to the understandingdistortion of your peoples. This is an obvious point well known to your
peoples, but little considered.
This energy is intelligent. It is hierarchical. Much as your
mind/body/spirit complex dwells within an hierarchy of vehicles and
retains, therefore, the shell, or shape, or field, and the intelligence of each
ascendingly intelligent or balanced body, so does each atom of such a
material as rock. When one can speak to that intelligence, the finite
energy of the physical, or chemical, rock/body is put into contact with
that infinite power which is resident in the more well-tuned bodies, be
they human or rock.
With this connection made, a request may be given. The intelligence of
infinite rock-ness communicates to its physical vehicle, and that splitting
and moving which is desired is then carried out through the displacement
of the energy field of rock-ness from finity to a dimension which we may
conveniently call, simply, infinity.
In this way, that which is required is accomplished due to the cooperation
of the infinite understanding of the Creator indwelling in the living rock.
This is, of course, the mechanism by which many things are accomplished
which are not subject to your present means of physical analysis of action
at a distance.
3.9 QUESTIONER I am reminded of the statement, approximately, if you had
enough faith, you could say to a mountain to move and the mountain
would move. I assume this is approximately what you are saying, and I
am assuming that if you are fully aware of the Law of One, then you are
able to do these things. Is that correct?
40 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. The vibratory distortion of sound, “faith,” is perhaps one of
the stumbling blocks between those of what we may call the infinite path
and those of the finite proving-understanding.
You are precisely correct in your understanding of the congruency of faith
and intelligent infinity; however, one is a spiritual term, the other more
acceptable perhaps to the conceptual-framework distortions of those who
seek with measure and pen.
3.10 QUESTIONER Then if an individual is totally informed with respect to the
Law of One, and lives and is the Law of One, such things as the building
of a pyramid by direct mental effort would be commonplace. Is that what
I am to understand? Am I correct?
R A I am Ra. You are incorrect in that there is a distinction between the
individual power through the Law of One and the combined, or societal
memory complex mind/body/spirit understanding of the Law of One.
In the first case, only the one individual, purified of all flaws, could move
a mountain. In the case of mass understanding of unity, each individual
may contain an acceptable amount of distortion and yet the mass mind
could move mountains.
The progress is normally from the understanding which you now seek to
a dimension of understanding which is governed by the Laws of Love,
and which seeks the Laws of Light. Those who are vibrating with the Law
of Light seek the Law of One. Those who vibrate with the Law of One
seek the Law of Foreverness.
We cannot say what is beyond this dissolution of the unified self with all
that there is, for we still seek to become all that there is, and still are we
Ra. Thus our paths go onward.
3.11 QUESTIONER Was the pyramid then built by the mutual action of many of
your people?
R A I am Ra. The pyramids which we thought/built were constructed
from thought-forms created by our social memory complex.
3.12 QUESTIONER Then the rock was created by thought in place rather than
moved from somewhere else? Is that correct?
SESSION 3 41
R A I am Ra. We built with everlasting rock the Great Pyramid, as you
call it. Other of the pyramids were built with stone moved from one place
to another.
3.13 QUESTIONER What is everlasting rock?
R A I am Ra. If you can understand the concept of thought-forms you will
realize that the thought-form is more regular in its distortion than the
energy fields created by the materials in the rock which has been created,
through thought-form, from thought to finite energy and beingness in
your, shall we say, distorted reflection of the level of the thought-form.
May we answer you in any more helpful way?
3.14 QUESTIONER This is slightly trivial, but I was wondering why, in that case,
the pyramid was made of many blocks rather than the whole thing being
created at once.
R A I am Ra. There is a law which we believe to be one of the more
significant primal distortions of the Law of One. That is the Law of
Confusion. You have called this the Law of Free Will.
We wished to make an healing machine, or time/space ratio complex
which was as efficacious as possible. However, we did not desire to allow
the mystery to be penetrated by the peoples in such a way that we became
worshiped as builders of a miraculous pyramid. Thus it appears to be
made, not thought.
3.15 QUESTION E R Well, then you speak of the pyramid—especially the Great
Pyramid, I assume—as primarily a healing machine, and also spoke of it
as a device for initiation. Are these one and the same concepts?
R A They are part of one complex of love/light intent/sharing. To use the
healing aspects properly it was important to have a purified and dedicated
channel, or energizer, for the love/light of the Infinite Creator to flow
through; thus the initiatory method was necessary to prepare the mind,
the body, and the spirit for service in the Creator’s work. The two are
integral.
3.16 QUESTIONER Does the shape of the pyramid itself . . . is that a key
function in the initiation process?
42 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A This is a large question. We feel that we shall begin and ask you to reevaluate and ask further at a later session this somewhat, shall we say,
informative point.
To begin, there are two main functions of the pyramid in relation to the
initiatory procedures. One has to do with the body. Before the body can
be initiated, the mind must be initiated. This is the point at which most
adepts of your present cycle find their mind/body/spirit complexes
distorted from.
When the character and personality that is the true identity of the mind
has been discovered, the body then must be known in each and every
way. Thus, the various functions of the body need understanding and
control with detachment. The first use of the pyramid, then, is the going
down into the pyramid for purposes of deprivation of sensory input so
that the body may, in a sense, be dead and another life begin.
We advise, at this time, any necessary questions and a fairly rapid ending
of this session. Have you any query at this time/space?
3.17 QUESTIONER The only question is, is there anything that we have done
wrong, or anything that we could do to make the instrument more
comfortable?
R A We scan this instrument.
This instrument has been much aided by these precautions. We suggest
only some attention to the neck which seems in this body-distortion to be
distorted in the area of strength/weakness. More support, therefore, to the
neck area may be an aid.
3.18 QUESTIONER Should we have her drink the water from the chalice behind
her head after we charge it, or should we use a different glass of water?
R A That and only that chalice shall be the most beneficial as the virgin
material living in the chalice accepts, retains, and responds to the love
vibration activated by your beingness.
I am Ra. I will now leave this group rejoicing in the power and peace of
the One Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 4
JANUARY 22, 1981
4.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator. I
communicate now.
4.1 QUESTIONER Finishing the last session, I had asked a question that was too
long to answer. It had to do with the shape of the pyramid and its
relationship to the initiation. Is this an appropriate time to ask this
question?
R A I am Ra. Yes, this is an appropriate time/space to ask that question.
4.2 QUESTIONER Does the shape of the pyramid have effect upon the
initiation?
R A I am Ra. As we began the last session question, you have already
recorded in your individual memory complex the first use of the shape
having to do with the body complex initiation. The initiation of spirit
was a more carefully designed type of initiation as regards the time/space
ratios about which the entity to be initiated found itself.
If you will picture with me the side of the so-called pyramid shape and
mentally imagine this triangle cut into four equal triangles, you will find
the intersection of the triangle which is at the first level on each of the
four sides forms a diamond in a plane which is horizontal. The middle of
this plane is the appropriate place for the intersection of the energies
streaming from the infinite dimensions and the mind/body/spirit
complex’s various interwoven energy fields.
Thus it was designed that the one to be initiated would, by mind, be able
to perceive and then channel this, shall we say, gateway to intelligent
infinity. This, then, was the second point of designing this specific shape.
May we provide a further description of any kind to your query?
4.3 QUESTIONER As I understand it then, the initiate was to be on the center
line of the pyramid, but at an altitude above the base as defined by the
intersection of the four triangles made by dividing each side into four
triangles. Is that correct?
R A This is correct.
44 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
4.4 QUESTIONER Then at this point there is a focusing of energy that is extradimensional in respect to our dimensions. Am I correct?
R A You may use that vibratory sound complex. However, it is not totally
and specifically correct as there are no “extra” dimensions. We would
prefer the use of the term “multi” dimensions.
4.5 QUESTIONER Is the size of the pyramid a function in effectiveness of the
initiation?
R A I am Ra. Each size pyramid has its own point of streaming in of
intelligent infinity. Thus a tiny pyramid that can be placed below a body,
or above a body, will have specific and various effects depending upon the
placement of the body in relationship to the entrance point of intelligent
infinity.
For the purposes of initiation, the size needed to be large enough to create
the expression of towering size so that the entrance point of multidimensional intelligent infinity would completely pervade and fill the
channel, the entire body being able to rest in this focused area.
Furthermore, it was necessary for healing purposes that both channel and
the one to be healed be able to rest within that focused point.
4.6 QUESTIONER Is the large pyramid at Giza still usable for this purpose, or is
it no longer functioning?
R A I am Ra. That, like many other pyramid structures, is like the piano
out of tune: it, as this instrument would express, plays the tune, but oh so
poorly. The disharmony jangles the sensitive. Only the ghost of the
streaming still remains due to the shifting of the streaming points which
is, in turn, due to the shifting electromagnetic field of your planet; due
also to the discordant vibratory complexes of those who have used the
initiatory and healing place for less compassionate purposes.
4.7 QUESTIONER Would it be possible to build a pyramid and properly align it
and use it today with materials we have available?
R A I am Ra. It is quite possible for you to build a pyramid structure. The
material used is not critical, merely the ratios of time/space complexes.
However, the use of the structure for initiation and healing depends
completely upon the inner disciplines of the channels attempting such
work.
SESSION 4 45
4.8 QUESTIONER My question then would be, are there individuals incarnate
upon the planet today who would have the necessary inner disciplines to,
using your instructions, construct and initiate in a pyramid they built and
then possibly do it again? Is this within limits of what anyone can do on
the planet today, or is there no one available for this?
R A I am Ra. There are people, as you call them, who are able to take this
calling at this nexus. However, we wish to point out once again that the
time of the pyramids, as you would call it, is past. It is indeed a timeless
structure. However, the streamings from the universe were, at the time we
attempted to aid this planet, those which required a certain
understanding of purity. This understanding has, as the streamings
revolve and all things evolve, changed to a more enlightened view of
purity. Thus, there are those among your people at this time whose purity
is already one with intelligent infinity. Without the use of structures,
healer/patient can gain healing.
May we further speak to some specific point?
4.9 QUESTIONER Is it possible for you to instruct healing techniques if we
could make available these individuals that have the native ability?
R A I am Ra. It is possible. We must add that many systems of
teach/learning the healing/patient nexus are proper given various
mind/body/spirit complexes. We ask your imagination to consider the
relative simplicity of the mind in the earlier cycle and the less distorted,
but often overly complex, views and thought/spirit processes of the same
mind/body/spirit complexes after many incarnations.
We also ask your imagination to conceive of those who have chosen the
distortion of service and have removed their mind/body/spirit complexes
from one dimension to another, thus bringing with them in sometimes
totally latent form many skills and understandings which more closely
match the distortions of the healing/patient processes.
4.10 QUESTIONER I would very much like to continue investigation into the
possibility of this healing process, but I’m a little lost as to where to begin.
Can you tell me what my first step would be?
R A I am Ra. I cannot tell you what to ask. I may suggest that you
consider the somewhat complex information just given and thus discover
several avenues of inquiry. There is one “health,” as you call it, in your 
46 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
polarized environment, but there are several significantly various
distortions of types of mind/body/spirit complexes. Each type must
pursue its own learn/teaching in this area.
4.11 QUESTIONER I would assume that the first step would be to find an
individual with ability brought with him into this incarnation? Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
4.12 QUESTIONER Once I have selected an individual to perform healing, it
would be helpful to receive instruction from you. Is this possible?
R A I am Ra. This is possible given the distortions of vibratory sound
complexes.
4.13 QUESTIONER I’m assuming, then, that the selected individual would
necessarily be one who was very much in harmony with the Law of One.
Though he may not have any intellectual understanding of it, he should
be living the Law of One. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is both correct and incorrect. The first case, that being
correctness, would apply to one such as the questioner itself who has the
distortion towards healing, as you call it.
The incorrectness, which shall be observed, is the healing of those whose
activities in your space/time illusion do not reflect the Law of One but
whose ability has found its pathway to intelligent infinity regardless of the
plane of existence from which this distortion is found.
4.14 QUESTIONER [Aside: Jim, did you understand?] I’m a little confused. I
partially understood you; I’m not sure that I fully understood you. Could
you restate that in another way?
R A I can restate that in many ways, given this instrument’s knowledge of
your vibratory sound complexes. I will strive for a shorter distortion at
this time.
Two kinds there are who can heal: those such as yourself who, having the
innate distortion towards knowledge-giving of the Law of One, can heal
but do not; and those who, having the same knowledge but showing no
significant distortion consciously towards the Law of One in mind, body,
or spirit, yet and nevertheless, have opened a channel to the same ability. 
SESSION 4 47
The point being that there are those who, without proper training, shall
we say, nevertheless, heal.
It is a further item of interest that those whose life does not equal their
work may find some difficulty in absorbing the energy of intelligent
infinity and thus become quite distorted in such a way as to cause
disharmony in themselves and others, and perhaps even find it necessary
to cease the healing activity. Therefore, those of the first type, those who
seek to serve and are willing to be trained in thought, word, and action
are those who will be able to comfortably maintain the distortion towards
service in the area of healing.
4.15 Q U ESTIONER Then would it be possible for you to train us in healing
practice?
R A I am Ra. It is possible.
4.16 QUESTIONER Will you train us?
R A We will.
4.17 QUESTIONER I have no idea of how long this would take or if you can even
tell anything about that. Is it possible for you to give me a synopsis of the
program of training required? I have no knowledge of what questions to
ask at this point. I’ll ask that question in the hopes that it makes sense.
R A I am Ra. We consider your request for information, for as you noted,
there are a significant number of vibratory sound complexes which can be
used in sequence to train the healer.
The synopsis is a very appropriate entry that you might understand what
is involved.
Firstly, the mind must be known to itself. This is perhaps the most
demanding part of healing work. If the mind knows itself then the most
important aspect of healing has occurred, for consciousness is the
microcosm of the Law of One.
The second part has to do with the disciplines of the body complexes. In
the streamings reaching your planet at this time, these understandings
and disciplines have to do with the balance between love and wisdom in
the use of the body in its natural functions.
48 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
The third area is the spiritual, and in this area the first two disciplines are
connected through the attainment of contact with intelligent infinity.
4.18 QUESTIONER I believe I have some idea of the accomplishment—a little
idea, anyway, of the accomplishment—of the first step. Can you elaborate
the steps? The other two steps I am not at all familiar with.
R A I am Ra. Imagine the body. Imagine the more dense aspects of the
body. Proceed therefrom to the very finest knowledge of energy pathways
which revolve and cause the body to be energized. Understand that all
natural functions of the body have all aspects from dense to fine and can
be transmuted to what you may call sacramental. This is a brief
investigation of the second area.
To speak to the third: imagine, if you will, the function of the magnet.
The magnet has two poles. One reaches up. The other goes down. The
function of the spirit is to integrate the upreaching yearning of the
mind/body energy with the downpouring instreaming of infinite
intelligence. This is a brief explication of the third area.
4.19 QUESTIONER Then would this training program involve specific things to
do, specific instructions and exercises?
R A I am Ra. We are not at this time incarnate among your peoples; thus,
we can guide and attempt to specify, but cannot, by example, show. This
is an handicap. However, there should indeed be fairly specific exercises
of mind, body, and spirit during the teach/learning process we offer.
It is to be once again iterated that healing is but one distortion of the Law
of One. To reach an undistorted understanding of that law, it is not
necessary to heal or, indeed, to show any manifestation but only to
exercise the disciplines of understanding.
We would ask that one or two more questions be the ending of this
session.
4.20 QUESTIONER My objective is primarily to discover more of the Law of
One, and it would be very helpful to discover techniques of healing. I am
aware of your problem with respect to free will. Can you make— You
cannot make suggestions, so I will ask you if you can state the Law of
One and the laws of healing to me?
SESSION 4 49
R A I am Ra. The Law of One, though beyond the limitations of name, as
you call vibratory sound complexes, may be approximated by stating that
all things are one, that there is no polarity, no right or wrong, no
disharmony, but only identity. All is one, and that one is love/light,
light/love, the Infinite Creator.
One of the primal distortions of the Law of One is that of healing.
Healing occurs when a mind/body/spirit complex realizes, deep within
itself, the Law of One; that is, that there is no disharmony, no
imperfection; that all is complete and whole and perfect. Thus, the
intelligent infinity within this mind/body/spirit complex re-forms the
illusion of body, mind, or spirit to a form congruent with the Law of
One. The healer acts as energizer or catalyst for this completely individual
process.
One item which may be of interest is that a healer asking to learn must
take the distortion understood as responsibility for that ask/receiving,
thus healing. This is a[n] honor/duty which must be carefully considered
in free will before the asking.
4.21 QUESTIONER I assume that we should continue tomorrow.
R A I am Ra. Your assumption is correct unless you feel that a certain
question is necessary. This instrument is best nurtured by approximately
this length of work.
4.22 QUESTIONER One short question. Is this instrument capable of two of
these sessions per day, or should we remain with one?
R A I am Ra. This instrument is capable of two sessions a day. However,
she must be encouraged to keep her bodily complex strong by the
ingestion of your foodstuffs to an extent which exceeds this instrument’s
normal intake of your foodstuffs, this due to the physical material which
we use to speak.
Further, this instrument’s activities must be monitored to prevent overactivity, for this activity is equivalent to a strenuous working on the
physical level.
If these admonitions are considered, the two sessions would be possible.
We do not wish to deplete this instrument.
4.23 QUESTIONER Thank you, Ra.
50 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. I leave you in the love and the light of the One Infinite
Intelligence which is the Creator. Go forth rejoicing in the power and the
peace of the One. Adonai.
SESSION 5
JANUARY 23, 1981
5.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator. I
communicate now.
5.1 QUESTIONER The last time we communicated we were speaking of
learning of healing. It is my impression that from what you gave to us in
the earlier session that it is necessary to first purify the self by certain
disciplines and exercises. Then in order to heal a patient, it is necessary,
by example, and possibly certain exercises, to create a mental
configuration in the patient that allows him to heal himself. Am I correct?
R A I am Ra. Although your learn/understanding-distortion is essentially
correct, your choice of vibratory sound complex is not entirely as accurate
as this language allows.
It is not by example that the healer does the working. The working exists
in and of itself. The healer is only the catalyst, much as this instrument
has the catalysis necessary to provide the channel for our words, yet, by
example or exercise of any kind, can take no thought for this working.
The healing working is congruent in that it is a form of channeling some
distortion of the intelligent infinity.
5.2 QUESTIONER We have decided to accept, if offered, the honor/duty of
learning/teaching the healing process. I would ask as to the first step
which we should accomplish in becoming effective healers.
R A I am Ra. We shall begin with the first of the three teachings/learnings.
We begin with the mental learn/teachings necessary for contact with
intelligent infinity. The prerequisite of mental work is the ability to retain
silence of self at a steady state when required by the self. The mind must
be opened like a door. The key is silence.
Within the door lies an hierarchical construction you may liken unto
geography and in some ways geometry, for the hierarchy is quite regular,
bearing inner relationships.
To begin to master the concept of mental discipline it is necessary to
examine the self. The polarity of your dimension must be internalized. 
52 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Where you find patience within your mind you must consciously find the
corresponding impatience and vice versa. Each thought that a being has,
has in its turn an antithesis. The disciplines of the mind involve, first of
all, identifying both those things of which you approve and those things
of which you disapprove within yourself, and then balancing each and
every positive and negative charge with its equal. The mind contains all
things. Therefore, you must discover this completeness within yourself.
The second mental discipline is acceptance of the completeness within
your consciousness. It is not for a being of polarity in the physical
consciousness to pick and choose among attributes, thus building the
roles that cause blockages and confusions in the already-distorted mind
complex. Each acceptance smooths part of the many distortions that the
faculty you call judgment engenders.
The third discipline of the mind is a repetition of the first but with the
gaze outward towards the fellow entities that it meets. In each entity there
exists completeness. Thus, the ability to understand each balance is
necessary. When you view patience, you are responsible for mirroring in
your mental understanding patience/impatience. When you view
impatience, it is necessary for your mental configuration of understanding
to be impatience/patience. We use this as a simple example. Most
configurations of mind have many facets, and understanding of either self
polarities, or what you would call other-self polarities, can and must be
understood as subtle work.
The next step is the acceptance of the other-self polarities, which mirrors
the second step.
These are the first four steps of learning mental discipline. The fifth step
involves observing the geographical and geometrical relationships and
ratios of the mind, the other mind, the mass mind, and the infinite mind.
The second area of learn/teaching is the study/understanding of the body
complexes. It is necessary to know your body well. This is a matter of
using the mind to examine how the feelings, the biases—what you would
call the emotions—affect various portions of the body complex. It shall be
necessary to both understand the bodily polarities and to accept them,
repeating in a chemical/physical manifestation the work you have done
upon the mind bethinking the consciousness.
SESSION 5 53
The body is a creature of the mind’s creation. It has its biases. The
biological bias must be first completely understood and then the opposite
bias allowed to find full expression in understanding. Again, the process
of acceptance of the body as a balanced, as well as polarized, individual
may then be accomplished.
It is then the task to extend this understanding to the bodies of the otherselves whom you will meet. The simplest example of this is the
understanding that each biological male is female; each biological female
is male. This is a simple example. However, in almost every case wherein
you are attempting the understanding of the body of self or other-self,
you will again find that the most subtle discernment is necessary in order
to fully grasp the polarity complexes involved.
At this time we would suggest closing the description until the next time
of work so that we may devote time to the third area commensurate with
its importance.
We can answer a query if it is a short one before we leave this instrument.
5.3 QUESTIONER Is the instrument comfortable? Is there any other thing that
would increase the instrument’s comfort? That’s all.
R A I am Ra. The candle could be rotated clockwise approximately 10°
each session to improve the flow of spiraled energy through the being’s
receiving mechanisms. This particular configuration is well otherwise. But
we ask that the objects described and used be centered with geometric
care and checked from time to time. Also that they not be exposed to that
space/time in which work is not of importance.
I am Ra. I leave this instrument in the love and light of the One Infinite
Creator. Go forth rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One
Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 6
JANUARY 24, 1981
6.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator. I
communicate now.
6.1 QUESTIONER We would like to continue the material from yesterday. We
had to cease before [inaudible].
R A I am Ra. This is well with us.
We proceed now with the third area of teach/learning concerning the
development of the energy powers of healing.
The third area is the spiritual complex which embodies the fields of force
and consciousness which are the least distorted of your mind/body/spirit
complex. The exploration and balancing of the spirit complex is indeed
the longest and most subtle part of your learn/teaching. We have
considered the mind as a tree. The mind controls the body. With the
mind single-pointed, balanced, and aware, the body comfortable in
whatever biases and distortions make it appropriately balanced for that
instrument, the instrument is then ready to proceed with the great work.
That is the work of wind and fire. The spiritual body energy field is a
pathway, or channel. When body and mind are receptive and open, then
the spirit can become a functioning shuttle, or communicator, from the
entity’s individual energy of will upwards and from the streamings of the
creative fire and wind downwards.
The healing ability, like all other, what this instrument would call
paranormal abilities, is effected by the opening of a pathway, or shuttle,
into intelligent infinity. There are many upon your plane who have a
random hole or gateway in their spirit energy field, sometimes created by
the ingestion of chemicals such as, what this instrument would call LSD,
who are able, randomly and without control, to tap into energy sources.
They may or may not be entities who wish to serve. The purpose of
carefully and consciously opening this channel is to serve in a more
dependable way, in a more commonplace or usual way, as seen by the
distortion complex of the healer. To others there may appear to be
miracles. To the one who has carefully opened the door to intelligent
infinity this is ordinary; this is commonplace; this is as it should be. The 
SESSION 6 55
life experience becomes somewhat transformed and the great work goes
on.
At this time we feel these exercises suffice for your beginning. We will, at
a future time, when you feel you have accomplished that which is set
before you, begin to guide you into a more precise understanding of the
functions and uses of this gateway in the experience of healing.
6.2 QUESTIONER I’ve been asked if it is possible for Tom Flaherty to attend
one of these communication sessions tomorrow. Are you familiar with the
entity, Tom Flaherty?
R A I am Ra. This mind/body/spirit complex, sound vibration of “Tom
Flaherty,” is acceptable. We caution you to carefully instruct this entity in
the frame of mind and various appurtenances which it must understand
before it is conducted into the circle.
6.3 QUESTIONER I’m not quite sure what you meant by appurtenances.
R A I was referring to the symbolic objects which trigger this instrument’s
distortions towards love/light. The placement and loving acceptance of
them by all present is important in the nurturing of this instrument.
Therefore, the appurtenances involved must be described and their
presence explained in your own words of teach/learning, for you have the
proper attitude for the required results.
6.4 QUESTIONER He’ll understand me. We’ll be very careful to totally inform
Tom before he attends. Thank you very much.
It seems to me that it might be an appropriate time to include a little
more historical background of yourself, possibly information having to do
with where you came from prior to involvement with planet Earth, if this
is possible.
R A I am Ra. I am, with the social memory complex of which I am a part,
one of those who voyaged outward from another planet within your own
solar system, as this entity would call it. The planetary influence was that
you call Venus. We are a race old in your measures. When we were at the
sixth dimension our physical beings were what you would call golden. We 
56 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
were tall and somewhat delicate. Our physical body complex covering,
which you call the integument, had a golden luster. 1
In this form we decided to come among your peoples. Your peoples at
that time were much unlike us in physical appearance, as you might call
it. We, thus, did not mix well with the population and were obviously
other than they. Thus, our visit was relatively short, for we found
ourselves in the hypocritical position of being acclaimed as other than
your other-selves. This was the time during which we built the structures
in which you show interest.
6.5 QUESTIONER How did you journey from Venus to this planet?
R A We used thought.
6.6 QUESTIONER Would it be possible to take one of the people at that time
from our planet and place him on Venus? Would he survive? Were
conditions much [inaudible]?
R A The third-density conditions are not hospitable to the life-forms of
your peoples. The fifth and sixth dimensions of that planetary sphere are
quite conducive to growing/learning/teaching.
6.7 QUESTIONER How were you able to make the transition from Venus, and I
assume the sixth dimension, which—would that be invisible when you
reached here? Did you have to change your dimensions to walk on the
earth?
R A You will remember the exercise of the wind. The dissolution into
nothingness is the dissolution into unity, for there is no nothingness.
From the sixth dimension, we are capable of manipulating, by thought,
the intelligent infinity present in each particle of light, or distorted light,
so that we were able to clothe ourselves in a replica visible in the third
density of our mind/body/spirit complexes in the sixth density. We were
allowed this experiment by the Council which guards this planet.
6.8 QUESTIONER Where is this Council located?
 1 A number of clues seem to indicate that Ra intended to say third dimension here
instead of sixth, including the information given in 6.7 and because they speak of
the “physical body complex” and the “integument,” which we know from other
transmissions that in the sixth density they have become light (e.g., 8.20).
SESSION 6 57
R A This Council is located in the octave, or eight[h] dimension, of the
planet Saturn, taking its place in an area which you understand in thirddimensional terms as the rings.
6.9 QUESTIONER Are there any people such as you find on Earth on any of the
other planets in this solar system?
R A Do you request space/time present information or space/time
continuum information?
6.10 QUESTIONER Both.
R A At one time/space, in what is your past, there was a population of
third-density beings upon a planet which dwelt within your solar system.
There are various names by which this planet has been named. The
vibratory sound complex most usually used by your peoples is Maldek.
These entities, destroying their planetary sphere, thus were forced to find
room for themselves upon this third density, which is the only one in
your solar system at their time/space present which was hospitable and
capable of offering the lessons necessary to decrease their
mind/body/spirit distortions with respect to the Law of One.
6.11 QUESTIONER How did they come here?
R A They came through the process of harvest and were incarnated
through the processes of incarnation from your higher spheres within this
density.
6.12 QUESTIONER How long ago did this happen, in our years?
R A I am having difficulty communicating with this instrument. We must
deepen her state.
This occurred approximately five hundred thousand [500,000] of your
years ago.
6.13 QUESTIONER Thanks. Is all of the earth’s population then—human
population of the earth—are all of them originally from Maldek?
R A I am Ra. This is a new line of questioning and deserves a place of its
own. The ones who were harvested to your sphere from the sphere known
before its dissolution as other names, but to your peoples as Maldek,
incarnated, many within your earth’s surface rather than upon it. The
population of your planet contains many various groups harvested from 
58 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
other second-dimension and cycled third-dimension spheres. You are not
all one race or background of beginning. The experience you share is
unique to this time/space continuum.
6.14 QUESTIONER I think it would be appropriate to discover how the Law of
One acts in this transfer of beings to our planet and the action of harvest.
R A I am Ra. The Law of One states simply that all things are one, that all
beings are one. There are certain behaviors and thought-forms consonant
with the understanding and practice of this law. Those who, finishing a
cycle of experience, demonstrate various grades of distortion of that
understanding of thought and action will be separated by their own
choice into the vibratory distortion most comfortable to their
mind/body/spirit complexes.
This process is guarded, or watched, by those nurturing beings who,
being very close to the Law of One in their distortions, nevertheless have
the distortion towards active service.
Thus, the illusion is created of Light, or more properly but less
understandably, light/love. This is in varying degrees of intensity. The
spirit complex of each harvested entity moves along the line of light until
the light grows too glaring, at which time the entity stops. This entity
may have barely reached third density or may be very, very close to the
ending of the third-density light/love distortion vibratory complex.
Nevertheless, those who fall within this octave of intensifying light/love
then experience a major cycle during which the opportunities are many
for the discovery of the distortions which are inherent in each entity and,
therefore, the lessening of these distortions.
6.15 QUESTIONER What is the length, in our years, of one of these cycles
currently?
R A One major cycle is approximately twenty-five thousand [25,000] of
your years. There are three cycles of this nature during which those who
have progressed may be harvested. At the end of three major cycles—that
is, approximately between seventy-five and seventy-six thousand [75–
76,000] of your years—all are harvested regardless of their progress, for
during that time the planet itself has moved through the useful part of
that dimension and begins to cease being useful for the lower levels of
vibration within that density.
SESSION 6 59
6.16 QUESTIONER What is the position of this planet with respect to
progression of the cycle at this time?
R A I am Ra. This sphere is at this time in fourth-dimension vibration. Its
material is quite confused due to the society memory complexes
embedded in its consciousness. It has not made an easy transition to the
vibrations which beckon. Therefore, it will be fetched with some
inconvenience.
6.17 QUESTIONER Is this inconvenience imminent within a few years?
R A I am Ra. This inconvenience, or disharmonious vibratory complex,
has begun several of your years in the past. It shall continue unabated for
a period of approximately three oh, thirty [30], of your years.
6.18 QUESTIONER After this thirty-year period I am assuming we will be a
fourth-dimension or fourth-density planet. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is so.
6.19 QUESTIONER Is it possible to estimate what percentage of the present
population will inhabit the fourth-density planet?
R A The harvesting is not yet, thus estimation is meaningless.
6.20 QUESTIONER Does the fact that we are in this transition period now have
anything to do with the reason that you have made your information
available to the population?
R A I am Ra. We have walked among your people. We remember. We
remember sorrow. We have seen much. We have searched for an
instrument of the proper parameters of distortion in mind/body/spirit
complex and supporting and understanding group of mind/body/spirit
complexes to accept this information with minimal distortion and
maximal desire to serve for some of your years.
The answer, in short, is yes. However, we wished you to know that in our
memory we thank you.
6.21 QUESTIONER The disc-shaped craft we call UFOs have . . . some have been
said to come possibly from the planet Venus. Would any of these be your
craft?
60 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. We have used crystals for many purposes. The craft of which
you speak have not been used by us in your space/time present memory
complex. However, we have used crystals and the bell shape in the past of
your illusion.
6.22 QUESTIONER How many years ago in the past did you use the bell-shaped
craft to come here?
R A I am Ra. We visited your peoples eighteen thousand [18,000] of your
years ago and did not land; again, eleven thousand [11,000] years ago.
6.23 QUESTIONER The photographs of the bell-shaped craft and reports of
contact from Venus exist from less than thirty years ago. Do you have any
knowledge of these reports?
R A I am Ra. We have knowledge of oneness with these forays of your
time/space present. We are no longer of Venus. However, there are
thought-forms created among your peoples from our time of walking
among you. The memory and thought-forms created therefrom are a part
of your society-memory complex. This mass consciousness, as you may
call it, creates the experience once more for those who request such
experience. The present Venus population is no longer sixth-density.
6.24 QUESTIONER Do any of the UFOs that are presently reported come from
other planets here at this time, or do you have this knowledge?
R A I am one of the members of the Confederation of Planets in the
Service of the Infinite Creator. There are approximately fifty-three
civilizations comprising approximately five hundred planetary
consciousness complexes in this Confederation. This Confederation
contains those from your own planet who have attained dimensions
beyond your third. It contains planetary entities within your solar system,
and it contains planetary entities from other galaxies. It is a true
Confederation in that its members are not alike, but allied in service
according to the Law of One.
6.25 QUESTIONER Do any of them come here at this time in spacecraft? In the
past, say, thirty years?
R A I am Ra. We must state that this information is unimportant. If you
will understand this, we feel that the information may be acceptably 
SESSION 6 61
offered. The Law of One is what we are here to express. However, we will
speak upon this subject.
Each planetary entity which wishes to appear within your thirddimensional space/time-distortion requests permission to break
quarantine, as you may call it, and appear to your peoples. The reason
and purpose for this appearance is understood and either accepted or
rejected. There have been as many as fifteen of the Confederation entities
in your skies at any one time; the others available to you through
thought.
At present there are seven which are operating with craft in your density.
Their purposes are very simple: to allow those entities of your planet to
become aware of infinity which is often best expressed to the uninformed
as the mysterious or unknown.
6.26 QUESTIONER I am fully aware that you are primarily interested in
disseminating the Law of One. However, it is my judgment—could be
wrong—that in order to disseminate this material it will be necessary to
include questions such as the one I have just asked for the purpose of
creating the widest possible dissemination of the material. If this is not
the objective, I could limit my questions only to the application of the
Law of One. But I understand that at this time it is the objective to
widely disseminate this material. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This perception is only slightly distorted in your
understand/learning. We wish you to proceed as you deem proper. That
is your place. We, in giving this information, find our distortion of
understanding of our purpose to be that not only of the offering of
information, but the weighting of it according to our distorted
perceptions of its relative importance. Thus, you will find our statements,
at times, to be those which imply that a question is unimportant. This is
due to our perception that the given question is unimportant.
Nevertheless, unless the question contains the potential for answer-giving
which may infringe upon free will, we offer our answers.
6.27 QUESTIONER Thank you very much. We do not want to overtire the
instrument. It’s now considerably over the normal working time. Could
you tell me the condition of the instrument?
R A The instrument is balanced due to your care. However, her physical
vehicle is growing stiff.
62 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
6.28 QUESTIONER In that case perhaps we should continue at a later time.
R A We shall agree. Therefore, unless you have a short question we will
take our leave.
6.29 QUESTIONER The only question I have is that I must assume since Leonard
was here when you first made contact, it’d be as suitable for him to be
here as Tom. Is this correct?
R A This is correct and completes the number of those at this time able to
come who are suitable. Again, remember the instructions given for the
preparation of the vibratory sound complex, Tom.
I am Ra. I leave you in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator.
Go forth rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One Creator.
Adonai.
SESSION 7
JANUARY 25, 1981
7.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of our Infinite Creator. I
communicate now.
7.1 QUESTIONER You mentioned that you were a member of the
Confederation of Planets. What avenues of service, or types of service, are
available to members of the Confederation? Would you describe some of
them?
R A I am Ra. I am assuming that you intend the service which we of the
Confederation can offer, rather than the service which is available to our
use.
The service available for our offering to those who call us is equivalent to
the square of the distortion/need of that calling divided by, or integrated
with, the basic Law of One in its distortion indicating the free will of
those who are not aware of the unity of creation.
7.2 QUESTIONER From this I am assuming that the difficulty you have
contacting this planet at this time is the mixture of people here—some
being aware of the unity, some not, and for this reason you cannot come
openly or give any proof of your contact. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. As we just repeated through this instrument, we must
integrate all of the portions of your social memory complex in its illusory
disintegration form. Then the product of this can be seen as the limit of
our ability to serve.
We are fortunate that the Law of Service squares the desires of those who
call. Otherwise, we would have no beingness in this time/space at this
present continuum of the illusion. In short, you are basically correct. The
thought of not being able is not a part of our basic thought-form complex
towards your peoples, but rather is a maximal consideration of what is
possible.
7.3 QUESTIONER By squared, do you mean that if ten people call you can
count that, when comparing it to the planetary ratio of people, as 100
people, squaring ten, getting 100? Is that correct?
64 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. The square is sequential — one, two,
three, four, each squared by the next number.
7.4 QUESTIONER [Inaudible] use an example. If ten, only ten, entities on Earth
required your services, how would you compute their call using this
square rule?
R A We would square one ten sequential times, raising the number to the
tenth square.
7.5 QUESTIONER What would be the result of this calculation?
R A [24-second pause] The result is difficult to transmit. It is one thousand
and twelve [1,012], approximately. The entities who call are sometimes
not totally unified in their calling, and thus the squaring is slightly less.
Thus, there is a statistical loss over a period of call. However, perhaps you
may see by this statistically corrected information the squaring
mechanism.
7.6 QUESTIONER About how many entities at present are calling from planet
Earth for your services?
R A I am called personally by three hundred fifty-two thousand
[352,000]. The Confederation, in its entire spectrum of entity-complexes,
is called by six hundred thirty-two millions [632,000,000] of your
mind/body/spirit complexes. These numbers have been simplified.
7.7 QUESTIONER Can you tell me what the result of the application of the Law
of Squares is to those figures?
R A The number is approximately meaningless in the finite sense as there
are many, many digits. It, however, constitutes a great calling which we of
all creation feel and hear as if our own entities were distorted towards a
great and overwhelming sorrow. It demands our service.
7.8 QUESTIONER At what point would this calling be enough for you to openly
come among the people on Earth? How many entities on Earth would
have to call the Confederation?
R A I am Ra. We do not calculate the possibility of coming among your
peoples by the numbers of calling, but by a consensus among an entire
societal-memory complex which has become aware of the infinite 
SESSION 7 65
consciousness of all things. This has been possible among your peoples
only in isolated instances.
In the case wherein a social memory complex which is servant of the
Creator sees this situation and has an idea for the appropriate aid which
can only be done among your peoples, the social memory complex
desiring this project lays it before the Council of Saturn. If it is approved,
quarantine is lifted.
7.9 QUESTIONER I have a question here, I believe, about that Council from
Jim. Who are the members, and how does the Council function?
R A I am Ra. The members of the Council are representatives from the
Confederation and from those vibratory levels of your inner planes
bearing responsibility for your third density. The names are not
important because there are no names. Your mind/body/spirit complexes
request names, and so, in many cases, the vibratory sound complexes
which are consonant with the vibratory distortions of each entity are
used. However, the name concept is not part of the Council. If names are
requested, we will attempt them. However, not all have chosen names.
In number, the Council that sits in constant session—though varying in
its members by means of balancing which takes place, what you would
call, irregularly—is nine. That is the Session Council. To back up this
Council, there are twenty-four entities which offer their services as
requested. These entities faithfully watch and have been called the
Guardians.
The Council operates by means of, what you would call, telepathic
contact with the oneness or unity of the nine, the distortions blending
harmoniously so that the Law of One prevails with ease. When a need for
thought is present, the Council retains the distortion-complex of this
need, balancing it as described, and then recommends what it considers as
appropriate action. This includes: one, the duty of admitting social
memory complexes to the Confederation; two, offering aid to those who
are unsure how to aid the social memory complex requesting aid in a way
consonant with both the call, the Law, and the number of those calling
(that is to say, sometimes the resistance of the call); three, internal
questions in the Council are determined.
These are the prominent duties of the Council. They are, if in any doubt,
able to contact the twenty-four who then offer consensus 
66 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
judgment/thinking to the Council. The Council then may reconsider any
question.
7.10 QUESTIONER Is the Council of Nine the same nine that was mentioned in
this book? [Questioner gestures to Uri by Andrija (Henry) Puharich.]
R A I am Ra. The Council of Nine has been retained in semi-undistorted
form by two main sources: that known in your naming as Mark, and that
known in your naming as Henry. In one case, the channel became the
scribe. In the other, the channel was not the scribe. However, without the
aid of the scribe, the energy would not have come to the channel.
7.11 QUESTIONER The names you spoke of, are they Mark Probert and Henry
Puharich?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
7.12 QUESTIONER I am interested in the application of the Law of One as it
pertains to free will and what I would call the advertising done by UFO
contact with the planet. That is, the Council has allowed the quarantine
to be lifted many times over the past thirty years. This seems to me to be
a form of advertising for what we are doing right now, so that more
people will be awakened. Am I correct?
R A I am Ra. It will take a certain amount of untangling of
conceptualization of your mental complex to reform your query into an
appropriate response. Please bear with us.
The Council of Saturn has not allowed the breaking of quarantine in the
time/space continuum you mentioned. There is a certain amount of
landing taking place. Some of these landings are of your peoples. Some
are of the entities known to you as the group of Orion.
Secondly, there is permission granted, not to break quarantine by
dwelling among you, but to appear in thought-form capacity for those
who have eyes to see.
Thirdly, you are correct in assuming that permission was granted at the
time/space in which your first nuclear device was developed and used for
Confederation members to minister unto your peoples in such a way as to
cause mystery to occur. This is what you mean by advertising and is
correct.
The mystery and unknown quality of the occurrences we are allowed to 
SESSION 7 67
offer have the hoped-for intention of making your peoples aware of
infinite possibility. When your peoples grasp infinity, then, and only
then, can the gateway be opened to the Law of One.
7.13 QUESTIONER You mentioned both our people and those of Orion coming
here. Can you expand on that?
R A I am Ra. Your thought complexes did not match your vibratory
sound complexes. We are unable to respond. Please restate your query.
7.14 QUESTIONER I’ll just ask about Orion. You mentioned Orion as a source
of some of the contacts of UFOs. Can you tell me something of that
contact, its purpose?
R A I am Ra. Consider, if you will, a simple example of intentions which
are bad/good. This example is Adolf. This is your vibratory sound
complex. The intention is to presumably unify by choosing the distortion
complex called elite from a social memory complex, and then enslaving,
by various effects, those who are seen as the distortion of not-elite. There
is then the concept of taking the social memory complex thus weeded and
adding it to a distortion thought of by the so-called Orion group as an
empire.
The problem facing them is that they face a great deal of random energy
released by the concept of separation. This causes them to be vulnerable
as the distortions amongst their own members are not harmonized.
7.15 QUESTIONER What is the density of the Orion group?
R A I am Ra. Like the Confederation, the densities of the mass
consciousnesses which comprise that group are varied. There are a very
few third density, a larger number of fourth density, a similarly large
number of fifth density,1 and very few sixth-density entities comprising
this organization. Their numbers are perhaps one-tenth ours at any point
in the space/time continuum as the problem of spiritual entropy causes
them to experience constant disintegration of their social memory
complexes.
 1 It is unclear and subject to interpretation, but this information about the number
of fifth-density entities comprising the Orion group may contradict information
given in 48.6.
68 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Their power is the same as ours. The Law of One blinks neither at the
light or the darkness but is available for service to others and service to
self. However, service to others results in service to self, thus preserving
and further harmonizing the distortions of those entities seeking
intelligent infinity through these disciplines.
Those seeking intelligent infinity through the use of service to self create
the same amount of power but, as we said, have constant difficulty
because of the concept of separation which is implicit in the
manifestations of the service to self which involve power over others. This
weakens and eventually disintegrates the energy collected by such
mind/body/spirit complexes who call the Orion group and the social
memory complexes which comprise the Orion group.
It should be noted, carefully pondered, and accepted, that the Law of
One is available to any social memory complex which has decided to
strive together for any seeking of purpose, be it service to others or service
to self. The laws, which are the primal distortions of the Law of One,
then are placed into operation, and the illusion of space/time is used as a
medium for the development of the results of those choices freely made.
Thus all entities learn, no matter what they seek. All learn the same, some
rapidly, some slowly.
7.16 QUESTIONER Using as an example a fifth-density group or social memory
complex of the Orion group, what was their previous density before they
became fifth density?
R A I am Ra. The progress through densities is sequential. A fifth-density
social memory complex would be comprised of mind/body/spirit
complexes harvested from fourth density. Then the conglomerate or mass
mind/body/spirit complex does its melding, and the results are due to the
infinitely various possibilities of combination of distortions.
7.17 QUESTIONER I’m trying to understand how a group such as the Orion
group would progress. I was of the opinion that a closer understanding of
the Law of One created the condition of acceptability moving, say, from
our third density to the fourth in our transition now. And I’m trying to
understand how it would be possible—if you were in the Orion group
and pointed toward self-service—how you would progress, say, from the
third density to the fourth. What learning would be necessary for that?
SESSION 7 69
R A I am Ra. This is the last question of length for this instrument at this
time.
You will recall that we went into some detail as to how those not oriented
towards seeking service for others yet, nevertheless, found and could use
the gateway to intelligent infinity. This is true at all densities in our
octave. We cannot speak for those above us, as you would say, in the next
quantum, or octave, of beingness.
This is, however, true of this octave of densities. The beings are harvested
because they can see and enjoy the light/love of the appropriate density.
Those who have found this light/love, love/light without benefit of a
desire for service nevertheless, by the Law of Free Will, have the right to
the use of that light/love for whatever purpose.
Also, it may be inserted that there are systems of study which enable the
seeker of separation to gain these gateways. This study is as difficult as the
one which we have described to you, but there are those with the
perseverance to pursue the study just as you desire to pursue the difficult
path of seeking to know in order to serve.
The distortion lies in the fact that those who seek to serve the self are seen
by the Law of One as precisely the same as those who seek to serve others,
for are all not one? To serve yourself and to serve other is a dual method
of saying the same thing, if you can understand the essence of the Law of
One.
At this time we would answer any brief questions you may have.
7.18 QUESTIONER Is there anything we can do to make the instrument more
comfortable?
R A I am Ra. There are small adjustments you may make. However, we
are now able to use this instrument with minimal distortion and without
depleting the instrument to any significant extent.
Do you wish to ask further?
7.19 QUESTIONER We do not wish to overly tire the instrument. Thank you
very much. That was very helpful. We will continue in the next session
taking up this point. I believe that I’m beginning to understand the
progression. Thank you very much.
70 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. I leave you in the love and the light of the One Infinite
Creator. Go forth then rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One
Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 8
JANUARY 26, 1981
8.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator. I
communicate now.
8.1 QUESTIONER I have a question about what I call the advertising of the
Confederation. It has to do with free will. There have been certain
contacts allowed, as I understand, by the Council, but this is limited
because of free will of those who are not oriented in such a way that they
could maybe want contact. This material that we are doing now will be
disseminated. Dissemination of this material will be dependent upon the
wants of a relatively small number of people on the planet. Many people
on the planet now want this material, but even though we disseminate it,
they will not be aware it is available. Is there any possibility of creating
some effect which I would call advertising, or is this against the principle
of free will?
R A I am Ra. Consider, if you will, the path your life-experience complex
has taken. Consider the coincidences and odd circumstances by which
one thing flowed to the next. Consider this well. Each entity will receive
the opportunity that each needs.
This information source-beingness does not have uses in the lifeexperience complex of each of those among your peoples who seek. Thus
the advertisement is general and not designed to indicate the searching
out of any particular material but only to suggest the noumenal aspect of
the illusion.
8.2 QUESTIONER There was a portion of the material yesterday which I will
read where you say, “There is a certain amount of landing taking place.
Some of these landings are of your peoples; some are of the entities
known to you as the group of Orion.” My first question is what did you
mean by the “landings are of your peoples”?
R A I am Ra. Your peoples have, at this time/space present, the
technological achievement, if you would call it that, of being able to
create and fly the shape and type of craft known to you as unidentified
flying objects. Unfortunately for the social memory complex vibratory
rate of your peoples, these devices are not intended for the service of 
72 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
mankind but for potential destructive use. This further muddles the
vibratory nexus of your social memory complex, causing a situation
whereby neither those oriented towards serving others nor those oriented
towards serving self can gain the energy/power which opens the gates to
intelligent infinity for the social memory complex. This in turn causes the
harvest to be small.
8.3 QUESTIONER Are these craft that are of our peoples from what we call
planes that are not incarnate at this time? Where are they based?
R A I am Ra. These of which we spoke are of third density and are part of
the so-called military complex of various of your peoples’ societal
divisions or structures.
The bases are varied. There are bases, as you would call them, undersea in
your southern waters near the Bahamas as well as in your Pacific seas in
various places close to your Chilean borders on the water. There are bases
upon your moon, as you call this satellite, which are at this time being
reworked. There are bases which move about your lands. There are bases,
if you would call them that, in your skies. These are the bases of your
peoples, very numerous and, as we have said, potentially destructive.
8.4 QUESTIONER Where do the people who operate these craft come from? Are
they affiliated with any nation on Earth? What is their source?
R A These people come from the same place as you or I. They come from
the Creator.
As you intend the question, in its shallower aspect, these people are those
in your and other-selves’ governments responsible for what you would
term national security.
8.5 QUESTIONER Am I to understand then that the United States has these
craft in undersea bases?
R A I am Ra. You are correct.
8.6 QUESTIONER How did the United States learn of the technology to build
these land [inaudible]?
R A I am Ra. There was a mind/body/spirit complex known to your
people by the vibratory sound complex, Nikola. This entity departed the
illusion, and the papers containing the necessary understandings were
taken by mind/body/spirit complexes serving your security of national 
SESSION 8 73
divisional complex. Thus your people became privy to the basic
technology.
In the case of those mind/body/spirit complexes which you call Russians,
the technology was given from one of the Confederation in an attempt,
approximately twenty-seven of your years ago, to share information and
bring about peace among your peoples. The entities giving this
information were in error, but we did many things at the end of this cycle
in attempts to aid your harvest from which we learned the folly of certain
types of aid. That is a contributing factor to our more cautious approach
at this date, even as the need is power-upon-power greater, and your
people’s call is greater and greater.
8.7 QUESTIONER I’m puzzled by these craft that we have undersea bases for.
They are [inaudible]. Is this technology sufficient to overshadow all other
armaments? Do we have just the ability to fly in these craft, or are there
any weapons like there are— Were they given to us [inaudible] or are they
just craft for transport? What is the basic mechanism of their [inaudible]?
It’s really hard to believe is what I’m saying.
R A I am Ra. The craft are perhaps misnamed in some instances. It would
be more appropriate to consider them as weaponry. The energy used is
that of the field of electromagnetic energy which polarizes the earth
sphere. The weaponry is of two basic kinds: that which is called by your
peoples psychotronic, and that which is called by your peoples particle
beam. The amount of destruction which is contained in this technology is
considerable, and the weapons have been used in many cases to alter
weather patterns and to enhance the vibratory change which engulfs your
planet at this time.
8.8 QUESTIONER How have they been able to keep this a secret? Why aren’t
these craft in use for transport?
R A The governments of each of your societal division illusions desire to
refrain from publicity so that the surprise may be retained in case of
hostile action from what your peoples call enemies.
8.9 QUESTIONER How many of these craft does the United States have?
R A I am Ra. The United States has five hundred seven three, five seven
three [573] at this time. They are in the process of adding to this number.
74 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
8.10 QUESTIONER What is the maximum speed of one of these craft?
R A I am Ra. The maximum speed of these craft is equal to the earth
energy squared. This field varies. The limit is approximately one-half the
light speed, as you would call it. This is due to imperfections in design.
8.11 QUESTIONER Wouldn’t this type of craft totally solve, or come close to
solving, a lot of the energy problems as far as transport goes? That we’re
used to transporting [inaudible] . . . transporting [inaudible].
R A I am Ra. The technology your peoples possess at this time is capable
of resolving each and every limitation which plagues your social memory
complex at this present nexus of experience. However, the concerns of
some of your beings with distortions towards what you would call
powerful energy cause these solutions to be withheld until the solutions
are so needed that those with the distortion can then become further
distorted in the direction of power.
8.12 QUESTIONER At the same time you mentioned that some of the landings
were of our peoples, you also mentioned that some were of the Orion
group. We talked a little about the Orion group, but why do the Orion
group land here? What is their purpose?
R A I am Ra. Their purpose is conquest. Unlike those of the
Confederation who wait for the calling, the so-called Orion group calls
itself to conquest.
8.13 QUESTIONER Specifically, what do they do when they land?
R A There are two types of landings. In the first, entities among your
peoples are taken on their craft and programmed for future use. There are
two or three levels of programming. First, the level that will be discovered
by those who do research. Second, a triggering program. Third, a second
and most deep triggering program crystallizing the entity thereby
rendering it lifeless and useful as a kind of beacon. This is a form of
landing.
The second form is that of landing beneath the earth’s crust which is
entered from water. Again, in the general area of your South American
and Caribbean areas and close to the so-called northern pole. The bases of
these people are underground.
SESSION 8 75
8.14 QUESTIONER What do the Orion group have . . . what’s the objective with
respect to the conquest of the Orion group?
R A I am Ra. As we have said previously, their objective is to locate certain
mind/body/spirit complexes which vibrate in resonance with their own
vibrational complex, then to enslave the un-elite, as you may call those
who are not of the Orion vibration.
8.15 QUESTIONER Was the landing at Pascagoula in 1973 when Charlie
Hickson was taken on board this type of landing?
R A I am Ra. The landing of which you speak was what you would call an
anomaly. It was neither the Orion influence nor our peoples in thoughtform but rather a planetary entity of your own vibration which came
through quarantine in all innocence in a random landing.
8.16 QUESTIONER What did they do to Charlie Hickson when they took him
on board?
R A I am Ra. They used his mind/body/spirit complex’s life experience,
concentrating upon the experience of the complexes of what you call war.
8.17 QUESTIONER How did they use them?
R A I am Ra. The use of experience is to learn. Consider a race who
watches a movie. It experiences a story and identifies with the feelings,
perceptions, and experiences of the hero.
8.18 QUESTIONER Was Charlie Hickson originally of the same social memory
complex as the ones who picked him up?
R A I am Ra. This entity of vibratory sound complex did not have a
connection with those who used him.
8.19 QUESTIONER Did those who used him use his war experiences to learn
more of the Law of One?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
8.20 QUESTIONER Were the entities that picked him . . . is that the normal
configuration of these entities? They [inaudible] rather unusual.
R A I am Ra. The configuration of their beings is their normal
configuration. The unusualness is not remarkable. We ourselves, when we
chose a mission among your peoples, needed to study your peoples, for 
76 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
had we arrived in no other form than our own, we would have been
perceived as light.
8.21 QUESTIONER Well, what density did the entities who picked up Charlie
Hickson come from? What was their density?
R A I am Ra. The entities in whom you show such interest are thirddensity beings of a fairly high order. We should express the understanding
to you that these entities would not have used the mind/body/spirit
complex, Charlie, except for the resolve of this entity before incarnation
to be of service.
8.22 QUESTIONER What was the home or origin of the entities that took
Charlie?
R A I am Ra. These entities are of the Sirius galaxy.
8.23 QUESTIONER The most startling information that you’ve given me, which I
must admit I’m having difficulty believing, is that the United States has
573 craft like you describe. How many people in our government are
aware that we have these? How many total people of United States
designation are aware of this, including those who operate the craft?
R A I am Ra. The number of your peoples varies, for there are needs to
communicate at this particular time/space nexus so that the number is
expanding at this time. The approximate number is one five oh oh
[1,500]. It is only approximate, for as your illusory time/space continuum
moves from present to present at this nexus many are learning.
8.24 QUESTIONER Where are these craft constructed?
R A These craft are constructed one by one in two locations: in the desert
or arid regions of your so-called New Mexico and in the desert or arid
regions of your so-called Mexico, both installations being under the
ground.
8.25 QUESTIONER Do you say the United States actually has a manufacturing
plant in Mexico?
R A I am Ra. I spoke thusly. May I, at this time, reiterate that this type of
information is very shallow and of no particular consequence compared
to the study of the Law of One. However, we carefully watch these
developments in hopes that your peoples are able to be harvested in peace.
SESSION 8 77
8.26 QUESTIONER I am totally aware how this line of questioning is of no
consequence at all, but this particular information is so startling to me
that it makes me question your validity on this. Up until this point, I was
in agreement with everything. This is very startling, and it does not seem
possible that this secret could have been kept twenty-seven years and that
we are operating these craft. I apologize for my attitude, but I thought I
would be very honest about this. It is unbelievable to me that we would
operate a plant in Mexico, outside of the United States, to build these
craft. Maybe I’m mistaken. These craft are physical craft built by our
physical people? I could go get in one and ride in one? Is that correct?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. You could not ride one. The United States,
as you call your society divisional complex, creates these as a type of
weapon.
8.27 QUESTIONER There are no occupants then? No pilot, shall I say?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
8.28 QUESTIONER How are they controlled?
R A I am Ra. They are controlled by computer from a remote source of
data.
8.29 QUESTIONER Why do we have a plant in Mexico?
R A I am Ra. The necessity is both for dryness of the ground and for a
near total lack of population. Therefore, your so-called government and
the so-called government of your neighboring geographical vicinity
arranged for an underground installation. The government officials who
agreed did not know the use to which their land would be put but
thought it a governmental research installation for use in what you would
call bacteriological warfare.
8.30 QUESTIONER Is this the type of craft that Dan Frye was transported in?
R A I am Ra. The one known as Daniel was, in thought-form, transported
by Confederation thought-form vehicular illusion in order to give this
mind/body/spirit complex data so that we might see how this type of
contact aided your people in the uncovering of the intelligent infinity
behind the illusion of limits.
78 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
8.31 QUESTIONER Would it be possible for any of us to have some type of
contact with the Confederation in a more direct way?
R A I am Ra. In observing the distortions of those who underwent this
experiential sequence we decided to gradually back off, shall I say, from
direct contact in thought-form. The least distortion seems to be available
in mind-to-mind communication. Therefore, the request to be taken
aboard is not one we care to comply with. You are most valuable in your
present orientation.
8.32 QUESTIONER The reason that I have questioned you so much upon the
craft which you say the United States government operates is that if we
include this in the book it will create numerous problems. It is something
that I am considering leaving out of the book entirely, or I am going to
have to question you in considerable detail about it. It’s difficult to even
question in this area, but I would like maybe to ask a few more questions
about it, with still the possible option of leaving it out of the book. What
are the diameter of these craft the United States [inaudible]?
R A I am Ra. I suggest that this be the last question for this session. We
will speak as you deem fit in further sessions, asking you to be guided by
your own discernment only.
The approximate diameter, given several model changes, is twenty-three
of your feet, as you measure.
May we ask at this time if you have a needed short query before we end
this session?
8.33 QUESTIONER Is there anything that we can do to make the instrument
more comfortable?
R A I am Ra. The instrument is well balanced. It is possible to make small
corrections in the configuration of the spine of the instrument that it be
straighter. Continue also to carefully monitor the placement and
orientation of the symbols used. This particular session the censer is
slightly off and, therefore, this instrument will experience a slight
discomfort.
8.34 QUESTIONER Is the censer off with respect to angle or with respect to
lateral displacement?
SESSION 8 79
R A There is an approximate three degree displacement from proper
perpendicularity.
I am Ra. I leave you in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator.
Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One
Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 9
JANUARY 27, 1981
9.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of our Infinite Creator.
We communicate now.
9.1 QUESTIONER We are definitely going to make the Law of One the primary
portion of this book. I apologize for getting sidetracked on these subjects.
We’re in the position of, shall we say, beating around as to what direction
to go with the book to begin with. For this reason I have asked a few
questions, and probably will ask a few more questions in the early part of
these sessions, that will be somewhat meaningless with respect to
application of the Law of One because my own ignorance of what I’m
doing. However, I expect to become more proficient rapidly while we go
on.
There are a couple of questions that are probably meaningless, but if I
could get them out of the way . . . they’re bothering me a little bit.
Is it possible for you to suggest a publisher for this book?
R A I am Ra. No.
9.2 QUESTIONER Is it possible for you to tell us of anything in our past
incarnations, our past experiences before this incarnation?
R A I am Ra. It is possible. However, such information as this is carefully
guarded by your mind/body/spirit being totality so that your present
space/time experiences will be undiluted.
Let us scan for harmless material for your beingness. [20-second pause.] I
am, in the distortion of desire for your freedom from preconception, able
to speak only generally.
There have been several times when this group worked and dwelt
together. The relationships varied. There is balanced karma, as you call it;
each thus the teacher of each. The work has involved healing,
understanding the uses of the earth energy, and work in aid of
civilizations which called, just as your sphere has done, and we have
come. This ends the material which we consider harmless.
SESSION 9 81
9.3 QUESTIONER The healing exercises that you gave to us are of such a nature
that it is best to concentrate on a particular exercise at a time. I would like
to ask at this time what exercise I should concentrate on. Possibly a little
exercise change . . . should concentrate on [inaudible], say tonight?
R A I am Ra. Again, to direct your judgment is an intrusion upon your
space/time-continuum distortion called future. To speak of past or
present within our distortion/judgment limits is acceptable. To guide
rather than teach/learn is not acceptable to our distortion in regards to
teach/learning. We instead can suggest a process whereby each chooses
the first of the exercises given in the order in which we gave them, which
you, in your discernment, feel is not fully appreciated by your
mind/body/spirit complex.
This is the proper choice—building from the foundation, making sure
the ground is good for the building. We have assessed for you the
intensity of this effort in terms of energy expended. You will take this in
mind and be patient, for we have not given a short or easy program of
consciousness learn/teaching.
9.4 QUESTIONER The way I understand the process of evolution of a planetary
population is that a population has a certain amount of time to progress.
This is generally divided into three 25,000-year cycles. At the end of
75,000 years, the planet progresses itself. What caused this situation to
come about? The preciseness of the years, 25,000 years, etc. What set this
up to begin with?
R A I am Ra. Visualize, if you will, the particular energy which, outward
flowing and inward coagulating, formed the tiny realm of the creation
governed by your Council of Saturn. Continue seeing the rhythm of this
process. The living flow creates a rhythm which is as inevitable as one of
your timepieces. Each of your planetary entities began the first cycle when
the energy nexus was able in that environment to support such
mind/body experiences. Thus, each of your planetary entities is on a
different cyclical schedule, as you might call it. The timing of these cycles
is a measurement equal to a portion of intelligent energy.
This intelligent energy offers a type of clock. The cycles move as precisely
as a clock strikes your hour. Thus, the gateway from intelligent energy to
intelligent infinity opens regardless of circumstance on the striking of the
hour.
82 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
9.5 QUESTIONER The original, the first entities on this planet . . . what was
their origin? Where were they before they were on this planet?
R A I am Ra. The first entities upon this planet were water, fire, air and
earth.
9.6 QUESTIONER The people that we now have—the first people, [inaudible]
like us—where did they come from? How did they evolve?
R A I am Ra. You speak of third-density experience. The first of those to
come here were brought from another planet in your solar system called
by you the Red Planet, Mars. This planet’s environment became
inhospitable to third-density beings. The first entities, therefore, were of
this race, as you may call it, manipulated somewhat by those who were
Guardians at that time.
9.7 QUESTIONER What race is that, and how did they get from Mars to here?
R A I am Ra. The race is a combination of the mind/body/spirit
complexes of those of your so-called Red Planet and a careful series of
genetical adjustments made by the Guardians of that time. These entities
arrived, or were preserved, for the experience upon your sphere by a type
of birthing which is non-reproductive, but consists of preparing genetic
material for the incarnation of the mind/body/spirit complexes of those
entities from the Red Planet.
9.8 QUESTIONER Then I’m assuming what you’re saying is that the Guardians
transferred the race here after the race had died from the physical as we
know it on Mars. Is that correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
9.9 QUESTIONER The Guardians obviously were acting with an understanding
of the Law of One in doing this. Can you explain the application of the
Law of One in this process?
R A I am Ra. The Law of One was named by these Guardians as the
bringing of the wisdom of the Guardians in contact with the entities from
the Red Planet, thus melding the social memory complex of the Guardian
race and the Red Planet race. It, however, took an increasing amount of
distortion into the application of the Law of One from the viewpoint of
other Guardians, and it is from this beginning action that the quarantine 
SESSION 9 83
of this planet was instituted, for it was felt that the free will of those of the
Red Planet had been abridged.
9.10 QUESTIONER Were the entities of the Red Planet following the Law of
One prior to leaving the Red Planet?
R A The entities of the Red Planet were attempting to learn the Laws of
Love which form one of the primal distortions of the Law of One.
However, the tendencies of these people towards bellicose actions caused
such difficulties in the atmospheric environment of their planet that it
became inhospitable for third-density experience before the end of its
cycle. Thus, the Red Planet entities were unharvested and continued in
your illusion to attempt to learn the Law of Love.
9.11 QUESTIONER How long ago did this transfer occur from the Red Planet to
Earth?
R A I am Ra. In your time this transfer occurred approximately seven five
zero zero zero [75,000] years ago.
9.12 QUESTIONER 75,000 years ago?
R A I am Ra. This is approximately correct.
9.13 QUESTIONER Were there any entities of this form that I am now—two
arms, two legs—on this planet before this transfer occurred?
R A I am Ra. There have been visitors to your sphere at various times for
the last four million of your years, speaking approximately. These visitors
do not effect1 the cycling of the planetary sphere. It was not third-density
in its environment until the time previously mentioned.
9.14 QUESTIONER Then there were second-density entities here prior to
approximately 75,000 years ago. What type of entities were these?
RA The second density is the density of the higher plant life and animal
life which exists without the upward drive towards the infinite. These
second-density beings are of an octave of consciousness just as you find
various orientations of consciousness among the conscious entities of your
vibration.
 1 Ra carefully enunciated the initial long “e,” thus the spelling “effect” instead of
“affect.”
84 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
9.15 QUESTIONER Did any of these second-density entities have shapes like
ours: two arms, two legs, head, and walk upright on two feet?
R A I am Ra. The two higher of the sub-vibrational levels of seconddensity beings had the configuration of the biped, as you mentioned.
However, the erectile movement which you experience was not totally
effected in these beings who were tending towards the leaning forward,
barely leaving the quadrupedal position.
9.16 QUESTIONE R Where did these beings come from? Were they a product of
evolution as it is understood by our scientists? Were they evolved from
the original material of the earth that you spoke of?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
9.17 QUESTIONER Do these beings then evolve from second density to third
density?
R A I am Ra. This is correct, although no guarantee can be made of the
number of cycles it will take an entity to learn the lessons of consciousness
of self which are the prerequisite for transition to third density.
9.18 QUESTIONER Is there any particular race of people on our planet now who
were incarnated here from second density?
R A I am Ra. There are no second-density consciousness complexes here
on your sphere at this time. However, there are two races which use the
second-density form. One is the entities of the planetary sphere you call
Maldek. These entities are working their understanding complexes
through a series of what you would call karmic restitutions. They dwell
within your deeper underground passageways and are known to you as
“Bigfoot.”
The other race is that being offered a dwelling in this density by
Guardians who wish to give the mind/body/spirit complexes of those who
are of this density at this time appropriately engineered physical vehicles,
as you would call these chemical complexes, in the event that there is
what you call nuclear war.
9.19 QUESTIONER I didn’t understand what these vehicles or beings were for
that were appropriate in the event of nuclear war.
R A I am Ra. These are beings which exist as instinctual second-density
beings which are being held in reserve to form what you would call a gene 
SESSION 9 85
pool in case these body complexes are needed. These body complexes are
greatly able to withstand the rigors of radiation which the body complexes
you now inhabit could not do.
9.20 QUESTIONER Where are these body complexes located?
R A I am Ra. These body complexes of the second race dwell in
uninhabited deep forest. There are many in various places over the surface
of your planet.
9.21 QUESTIONE R Are they Bigfoot-type creatures?
R A I am Ra. This is correct although we would not call these Bigfoot, as
they are scarce and are very able to escape detection. The first race is less
able to be aware of proximity of other mind/body/spirit complexes, but
these beings are very able to escape due to their technological
understandings before their incarnations here. These entities of the
glowing eyes are those most familiar to your peoples.
9.22 QUESTIONER Then there are two different types of Bigfoot. Correct?
R A I am Ra. This will be the final question.
There are three types of Bigfoot, if you will accept that vibratory sound
complex used for three such different races of mind/body/spirit
complexes. The first two we have described.
The third is a thought-form.
9.23 QUESTIONER We plan to do a second session later today if the instrument
is capable, and I’d like to ask if there is anything we can do to aid the
instrument’s comfort.
R A I am Ra. This instrument will require some adjustment of the tender
portions of her body complex. The distortions are due to the energy
center blockage you would call pineal.
I leave you in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator. Go
forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One Creator.
Adonai.
SESSION 10
JANUARY 27, 1981
10.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator. I
communicate now.
10.1 QUESTIONER I think it would clarify things for us to go back to the time
just before the transfer of souls from Maldek to see how the Law of One
operated with respect to this transfer, and why this was necessary. What
happened to Maldek, or the people on Maldek, to cause them to lose
their planet? How long ago did this occur?
R A I am Ra. The peoples of Maldek had a civilization somewhat similar
to that of the societal complex known to you as Atlantis in that it gained
much technological information and used it without care for the
preservation of their sphere, following to a majority extent the complex of
thought, ideas, and actions which you may associate with your so-called
negative polarity, or the service to self.
This was, however, for the most part, couched in a sincere belief/thought
structure which seemed to the perception of the mind/body complexes of
this sphere to be positive and of service to others. The devastation that
wracked their biosphere and caused its disintegration resulted from what
you call war.
The escalation went to the furthest extent of the technology this social
complex had at its disposal in the space/time present of the then time.
This time was approximately seven oh five oh oh oh, seven hundred and
five thousand [705,000] of your years ago. (The cycles had begun much,
much earlier upon this sphere due to its relative ability to support the
first-dimensional life forms at an earlier point in the space/time
continuum of your solar system.) These entities were so traumatized by
this occurrence that they were in what you may call a social complex
knot, or tangle, of fear. Some of your time passed. No one could reach
them. No beings could aid them.
Approximately six hundred thousand [600,000] of your years ago, the
then-existing members of the Confederation were able to deploy a social
memory complex and untie the knot of fear. The entities were then able
to recall that they were conscious. This awareness brought them to the 
SESSION 10 87
point upon what you would call the lower astral planes where they could
be nurtured until each mind/body/spirit complex was able, finally, to be
healed of this trauma to the extent that each entity was able to examine
the distortions it had experienced in the previous life-illusion complex.
After this experience of learn/teaching, the group decision was to place
upon itself a type of what you may call karma alleviation. For this
purpose they came into incarnation within your planetary sphere in what
were not acceptable human forms. This, then, they have been
experiencing until the distortions of destruction are replaced by
distortions towards the desire for a less distorted vision of service to
others.
Since this was the conscious decision of the great majority of those beings
in the Maldek experience, the transition to this planet began
approximately five hundred thousand [500,000] of your years ago, and
the type of body complex available at that time was used.1
10.2 QUESTIONER Was the body complex available at that time what we refer to
as the ape type?
R A That is correct.
10.3 QUESTIONER And have any of the Maldek entities transformed now? Are
they now still second-density, or are they forming some third-density
planet now?
R A The consciousness of these entities has always been third-density. The
alleviation mechanism was designed by the placement of this
consciousness in second-dimensional physical chemical complexes which
are not able to be dexterous or manipulative to the extent which is
appropriate to the workings of the third-density distortions of the mind
complex.
10.4 QUESTIONER Well, have any of these entities moved on now, made a, shall
we say, graduation at the end of a seventy-five thousand year cycle and
gotten out of the second-density body into third-density-type bodies?
R A I am Ra. Many of these entities were able to remove the accumulation
of what you call karma, thus being able to accept a third-density cycle
 1 The dates given in this answer seem to conflict with those given in 21.5.
88 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
within a third-density body. Most of those beings so succeeding have
incarnated elsewhere in the creation for the succeeding cycle in third
density. As this planet reached third density, some few of these entities
became able to join the vibration of this sphere in the third-density form.
There remain a few who have not yet alleviated, through the
mind/body/spirit coordination of distortions, the previous action taken
by them. Therefore, they remain.
10.5 QUESTIONER Are these the Bigfoot you spoke of?
R A I am Ra. These are one type of Bigfoot.
10.6 QUESTIONER Then our present race is formed of a few who originally came
from Maldek and quite a few who came from Mars. Are there entities
here from other places?
R A I am Ra. There are entities experiencing your time/space continuum
who have originated from many, many places, as you would call them, in
the creation, for when there is a cycle change those who must repeat then
find a planetary sphere appropriate for this repetition. It is somewhat
unusual for a planetary mind/body/spirit complex to contain those from
many, many various loci, but this explains much, for, you see, you are
experiencing the third-dimensional occurrence with a large number of
those who must repeat the cycle. The orientation, thus, has been difficult
to unify even with the aid of many of your teach/learners.
10.7 QUESTIONER When Maldek was destroyed, did all people of Maldek have
the problem, or were some advanced enough to transfer to other planets?
R A I am Ra. In the occurrence of planetary dissolution none escaped, for
this is an action which redounds to the social complex of the planetary
complex itself. None escaped the knot or tangle.
10.8 QUESTIONER Is there any danger of this happening to Earth at this time?
R A I am Ra. We feel this evaluation of your planetary mind/body/spirit
complex’s so-called future may be less than harmless. We say only the
conditions of mind exist for such development of technology and such
deployment.
It is the distortion of our vision/understanding that the mind and spirit
complexes of those of your people need orientation rather than the “toys” 
SESSION 10 89
needing dismantlement, for are not all things that exist part of the
Creator? Therefore, freely to choose is your honor/duty.
10.9 QUESTIONER When a graduation occurs and an entity or entities move at
the end of a cycle from one planet to another, by what means do they go
from one planet to the other?
R A I am Ra. In the scheme of the Creator, the first step of the
mind/body/spirit totality beingness is to place its mind/body/spirit
complex-distortion in the proper place of love/light. This is done to
ensure proper healing of the complex and eventual attunement with the
totality-beingness complex. This takes a very variable length of your
time/space.
After this is accomplished, the experience of the cycle is dissolved and
filtered until only the distillation of distortions in its pure form remains.
At this time, the harvested mind/body/spirit totality beingness evaluates
the density needs of its beingness and chooses the more appropriate new
environment for either a repetition of the cycle or a moving forward into
the next cycle. This is the manner of the harvesting, guarded and watched
over by many.
10.10 QUESTIONER When the entity is moved from one planet to the next, is he
moved in thought or in a vehicle?
R A I am Ra. The mind/body/spirit totality beingness is one with the
Creator. There is no time/space distortion. Therefore, it is a matter of
thinking the proper locus in the infinite array of time/spaces.
10.11 QUESTIONER While an entity is incarnate in this third density at this time
he may either learn without consciously knowing what he’s doing, or he
may learn after he is consciously aware that he is learning in the ways of
the Law of One. The second way, it is possible for the entity to greatly
accelerate his growth. Is not this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
10.12 QUESTIONER Then although many entities are not aware of this, what they
really desire is to accelerate their growth, and it is their job to discover this
while incarnate. Is it correct that they can accelerate their growth much
more while incarnate in third density than in between incarnations of this
density?
90 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. This is correct. We shall attempt to speak upon this concept.
The Law of One has, as one of its primal distortions, the Free Will
distortion. Thus each entity is free to accept, reject, or ignore the
mind/body/spirit complexes about it and ignore the creation itself. There
are many among your social memory complex-distortion who, at this
time/space, engage daily, as you would put it, in the working upon the
Law of One in one of its primal distortions; that is, the Ways of Love.
However, if this same entity—being biased from the depths of its
mind/body/spirit complex towards love/light—were then to accept
responsibility for each moment of the time/space accumulation of present
moments available to it, such an entity can empower its progress in much
the same way as we described the empowering of the call of your social
complex-distortion to the Confederation.2
10.13 QUESTIONER Would you state in a little different way how you empower
this call?
R A I am Ra. We understand you to speak now of our previous
information. The call begins with one. This call is equal to infinity and is
not, as you would say, counted. It is the cornerstone. The second call is
added. The third call empowers or doubles the second, and so forth, each
additional caller doubling or granting power to all the preceding call.
Thus, the call of many of your peoples is many, many-powered and
overwhelmingly heard to the infinite reaches of the One Creation.
10.14 QUESTIONER For general development of the reader of this book, could
you state some of the practices or exercises to perform to produce an
acceleration toward the Law of One?
R A I am Ra.
Exercise One. This is the most nearly centered and usable within your
illusion complex. The moment contains love. That is the lesson/goal of
this illusion or density. The exercise is to consciously seek that love in
awareness and understanding-distortions. The first attempt is the
cornerstone. Upon this choosing rests the remainder of the life-experience
of an entity. The second seeking of love within the moment begins the
addition. The third seeking powers the second, the fourth powering or
 2 Described in 7.3–5.
SESSION 10 91
doubling the third. As with the previous type of empowerment, there will
be some loss of power due to flaws within the seeking in the distortion of
insincerity. However, the conscious statement of self to self of the desire
to seek love is so central an act of will that, as before, the loss of power
due to this friction is inconsequential.
Exercise Two. The universe is one being. When a mind/body/spirit
complex views another mind/body/spirit complex, see the Creator. This is
an helpful exercise.
Exercise Three. Gaze within a mirror. See the Creator.
Exercise Four. Gaze at the creation which lies about the mind/body/spirit
complex of each entity. See the Creator.
The foundation or prerequisite of these exercises is a predilection towards
what may be called meditation, contemplation, or prayer. With this
attitude, these exercises can be processed. Without it, the data will not
sink down into the roots of the tree of mind, thus enabling and ennobling
the body and touching the spirit.
10.15 QUESTIONER I was wondering about the advent of the civilization called
Atlantis and Lemuria, the way these civilizations occurred, and where did
they come from [inaudible] civilizations?
R A I am Ra. This is the last question of this work. The civilizations of
Atlantis and Lemuria were not one but two. Let us look first at the Mu
entities.
They were beings of a somewhat primitive nature, but those who had very
advanced spiritual distortions. The civilization was part of this cycle,
experienced early within the cycle at a time of approximately five three oh
oh oh, fifty-three thousand [53,000] of your years ago. It was an helpful
and harmless place which was washed beneath the ocean during a
readjustment of your sphere’s tectonic plates through no action of their
own.
They set out those who survived and reached many places in what you
call Russia, North America, and South America. The Indians of whom
you have come to feel some sympathy in your social complex-distortions
are the descendants of these entities. Like the other incarnates of this
cycle, they came from elsewhere. However, these particular entities were
largely drawn from a second-density planet which had some difficulty, 
92 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
due to the age of its sun, in achieving third-density life conditions. This
planet was from the galaxy Deneb.
The Atlantean race was a very conglomerate social complex which began
to form approximately three one oh oh oh, thirty-one thousand [31,000]
years in the past of your space/time continuum illusion. It was a slowgrowing and very agrarian society until approximately one five oh oh oh,
fifteen thousand [15,000] of your years ago. It reached quickly a high
technological understanding which caused it to be able to use intelligent
infinity in a less informative manner.
We may add that they used intelligent energy as well, manipulating
greatly the natural influxes of the indigo or pineal ray from divine or
infinite energy. Thus they were able to create life forms. This they began
to do instead of healing and perfecting their own mind/body/spirit
complexes, turning their distortions towards what you may call the
negative.
Approximately eleven thousand [11,000] of your years ago, the first of
the, what you call, wars, caused approximately forty percent of this
population to leave the density by means of disintegration of the body.
The second and most devastating of the conflicts occurred approximately
one oh eight two one, ten thousand eight hundred twenty-one [10,821]
years in the past according to your illusion. This created an earthchanging configuration and the large part of Atlantis was no more, having
been inundated. Three of the positively oriented of the Atlantean groups
left this geographical locus before that devastation, placing themselves in
the mountain areas of what you call Tibet, what you call Peru, and what
you call Turkey.
Do you have any brief questions before we close this meeting?
10.16 QUESTIONER Only one, other than what we can do to make the
instrument more comfortable. I have only one other question. I would
like to have brief information of the word you use, “galaxy.”
R A I am Ra. We use the term known to your people by the sound
vibration complex “galaxy.” We accept that some galaxies contain one
system of planetary and solar groups, others containing several. However,
the importance of the locus in infinite time/space dimensionality is so
little that we accept the distortion implicit in such an ambiguous term.
SESSION 10 93
10.17 QUESTIONER Then would nine planets and our sun we have here in our
system, would you refer to that as a solar galaxy?
R A We would not.
10.18 QUESTIONER How many stars, approximately, would be in a galaxy?
R A It depends upon the galactic system. Your own, as you know, contains
many, many millions of planet entities and star bodies.
10.19 QUEST IONER I was just trying to get to the definition you were using for
galaxy. You mentioned them a couple of times and it seemed to me that
[inaudible] what you call a galaxy we call a planetary system. Is there any
way to make the instrument more comfortable?
R A I am Ra. This instrument could be made somewhat more comfortable
if more support were given the body complex. Other than this, we can
only repeat the request to carefully align the symbols used to facilitate this
instrument’s balance. Our contact is narrow-banded and thus the influx
brought in with us must be precise.
I am Ra. I leave you in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator.
Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One
Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 11
JANUARY 28, 1981
11.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator. I
communicate now.
11.1 QUESTIONER Should we include the ritual that you have suggested that we
use to call you in the book that will result from these sessions?
R A I am Ra. This matter is of small importance, for our suggestion was
made for the purpose of establishing contact through this instrument
with this group.
11.2 QUESTIONER Is it of any assistance to the instrument to have [name] and
[name] present during these sessions? Does the number in the group make
any difference in these sessions?
R A I am Ra. The most important of the entities are the questioner and
the vibratory sound complex, Jim. The two entities additional aid the
instrument’s comfort by energizing the instrument with their abilities to
share the physical energy complex which is a portion of your love
vibration.
11.3 QUESTIONER You said yesterday that Maldek was destroyed due to warfare.
If Maldek hadn’t destroyed itself due to warfare, would it have become a
planet that evolved with self-service? And would the entities have
increased in density, gone on to, say, the fourth, fifth density in the
negative sense or the sense of self-service?
R A I am Ra. The planetary social memory complex, Maldek, had in
common with your own sphere the situation of a mixture of energy
direction. Thus it, though unknown, would most probably have been a
mixed harvest—a few moving to fourth density, a few moving towards
fourth density in service to self, the great majority repeating third density.
This is approximate due to the fact that parallel possibility/probability
vortices cease when action occurs and new probability/possibility vortices
are begun.
11.4 QUESTIONER Is there a planet behind our sun, opposite to us in orbit, that
we do not know about?
SESSION 11 95
R A I am Ra. There is a sphere in the area opposite your sun of a very,
very cold nature but large enough to skew certain statistical figures. This
sphere should not properly be called a planet as it is locked in first
density.
11.5 QUESTIONER You said that entities from Maldek might go to . . . some
may go to fourth-density negative. Are there people who go out of our
present third density to places in the universe and serve, which are fourthdensity self-service or negative type of planets?
R A I am Ra. Your question is unclear. Please restate.
11.6 QUESTIONER As our cycle ends and graduation occurs, is it possible for
anyone to go from this third density to a fourth-density planet that is a
self-service type, or negative type?
R A I am Ra. We grasp now the specificity of your query. In this harvest
the probability/possibility vortex indicates an harvest, though small, of
this type. That is correct.
11.7 QUESTIONER Can you tell us what happened to Adolf Hitler?
R A I am Ra. The mind/body/spirit complex known [as] Adolf is at this
time in an healing process in the middle astral planes of your spherical
force field. This entity was greatly confused and, although aware of the
circumstance of change in vibratory level associated with the cessation of
the chemical body complex, nevertheless, needed a great deal of care.
11.8 QUESTIONER Is there anyone in our history that is commonly known who
went to a fourth-density self-service or negative type planet, or who will
go there?
R A I am Ra. The number of entities thus harvested is small. However, a
few have penetrated the eighth level, which is only available from the
opening up of the seventh through the sixth. Penetration into the eighth,
or intelligent infinity, level allows a mind/body/spirit complex to be
harvested, if it wishes, at any time/space during the cycle.
11.9 QUESTIONER Are any of these people known in the history of our planet by
name?
R A I am Ra. We will mention a few. The one known as Taras Bulba, the
one known as Genghis Khan, the one known as Rasputin.
96 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
11.10 QUESTIONER How did they accomplish this? What was necessary for them
to accomplish this?
R A All of the aforementioned entities were aware, through memory, of
Atlantean understandings having to do with the use of the various centers
of mind/body/spirit complex energy influx in attaining the gateway to
intelligent infinity.
11.11 QUESTIONER Did this enable them to do what we refer to as magic? Do
paranormal things while they were incarnate here?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. The first two entities mentioned made little
use of these abilities consciously. However, they were bent singlemindedly upon service to self, sparing no efforts in personal discipline to
double, re-double, and so empower this gateway. The third was a
conscious adept and also spared no effort in the pursuit of service to self.
11.12 QUESTIONER Where are these three entities now?
R A I am Ra. These entities are in the dimension known to you as fourth.
Therefore, the space/time continua are not compatible. An
approximation of the space/time locus of each would net no actual
understanding. Each chose a fourth-density planet which was dedicated
to the pursuit of the understanding of the Law of One through service to
self: one in what you know as the Orion group, one in what you know as
Cassiopeia, one in what you know as Southern Cross. However, these loci
are not satisfactory. We do not have vocabulary for the geometric
calculations necessary for transfer of this understanding to you.
11.13 QUESTIONER Who went to the Orion group?
R A I am Ra. The one known as Genghis Khan.
11.14 QUESTIONER What does he presently do there? What is his job or
occupation? What does he do?
R A I am Ra. This entity serves the Creator in its own way.
11.15 QUESTIONER Is it impossible for you to tell us precisely how he does this
service?
R A I am Ra. It is possible for us to speak to this query. However, we use
any chance we may have to reiterate the basic understanding/learning that
all beings serve the Creator.
SESSION 11 97
The one you speak of as Genghis Khan, at present, is incarnate in a
physical light body which has the work of disseminating material of
thought control to those who are what you may call crusaders. He is, as
you would term this entity, a shipping clerk.
11.16 QUESTIONER What do the crusaders do?
R A I am Ra. The crusaders move in their chariots to conquer planetary
mind/body/spirit social complexes before they reach the stage of achieving
social memory.
11.17 QUESTIONER At what stage does a planet achieve social memory?
R A I am Ra. A mind/body/spirit social complex becomes a social memory
complex when its entire group of entities are of one orientation or
seeking. The group memory lost to the individuals in the roots of the tree
of mind then become[s] known to the social complex, thus creating a
social memory complex. The advantages of this complex are the relative
lack of distortion in understanding the social beingness and the relative
lack of distortion in pursuing the direction of seeking, for all
understanding-distortions are available to the entities of the society.
11.18 QUESTIONER Then we have crusaders from Orion coming to this planet
for mind control purposes. How do they do this?
R A As all, they follow the Law of One observing free will. Contact is
made with those who call. Those then upon the planetary sphere act
much as do you to disseminate the attitudes and philosophy of their
particular understanding of the Law of One, which is service to self.
These become the elite. Through these, the attempt begins to create a
condition whereby the remainder of the planetary entities are enslaved by
their own free will.
11.19 QUESTIONER Can you name any of the recipients of the crusaders—that is,
any names that may be known on the planet today?
R A I am Ra. I am desirous of being in non-violation of the Free Will
Distortion. To name those involved in the future of your space/time is to
infringe; thus, we withhold this information. We request your
contemplation of the fruits of the actions of those entities whom you may
observe enjoying the distortion towards power. In this way, you may 
98 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
discern for yourself this information. We shall not interfere with the, shall
we say, planetary game. It is not central to the harvest.
11.20 QUESTIONER How do the crusaders pass on their concepts to the incarnate
individuals on Earth?
R A I am Ra. There are two main ways, just as there are two main ways of,
shall we say, polarizing towards service to others. There are those
mind/body/spirit complexes upon your plane who do exercises and
perform disciplines in order to seek contact with sources of information
and power leading to the opening of the gate to intelligent infinity.
There are others whose vibratory complex is such that this gateway is
opened and contact with total service to self, with its primal distortion of
manipulation of others, is then afforded with little or no difficulty, no
training, and no control.
11.21 QUESTIONER What type of information is passed on from the crusaders to
these people?
R A I am Ra. The Orion group passes on information concerning the Law
of One with the orientation of service to self. The information can
become technical just as some in the Confederation, in attempts to aid
this planet in service to others, have provided what you would call
technical information. The technology provided by this group is in the
form of various means of control or manipulation of others to serve the
self.
11.22 QUESTIONER Do you mean, then, that some scientists receive technical
information, shall we say, telepathically that comes out then as usable
gadgetry?
R A I am Ra. That is correct. However, very positively, as you would call
this distortion, oriented so-called scientists have received information
intended to unlock peaceful means of progress which redounded unto the
last echoes of potential destruction due to further reception of other
scientists of a negative orientation-distortion.
11.23 QUES TIONER Is this how we learned of nuclear energy? Was it mixed, both
positive and negative orientation?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. The entities responsible for the gathering of
the scientists were of a mixed orientation. The scientists were 
SESSION 11 99
overwhelmingly positive in their orientation. The scientists who followed
their work were of mixed orientation including one extremely negative
entity, as you would term it.
11.24 QUESTIONER Is this extremely negative entity still incarnate on Earth?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
11.25 QUESTIONER Then I assume you can’t name him and would ask you where
Nikola Tesla got his information?
R A I am Ra. The one known as Nikola received information from
Confederation sources desirous of aiding this extremely, shall we say,
angelically positive entity in bettering the existence of its fellow
mind/body/spirit complexes. It is unfortunate, shall we say, that like
many wanderers, the vibratory distortions of third-density illusion caused
this entity to become extremely distorted in its perceptions of its fellow
mind/body/spirit complexes so that its mission was hindered and, in the
result, perverted from its purposes.
11.26 QUESTIONER How was Tesla’s work supposed to benefit man on Earth,
and what were its purposes?
R A I am Ra. The most desired purpose of the mind/body/spirit complex,
Nikola, was the freeing of all planetary entities from darkness. Thus, it
attempted to give to the planet the infinite energy of the planetary sphere
for use in lighting and power.
11.27 QUESTIONER By freeing the planetary entities from darkness, precisely
what do you mean?
R A I am Ra. [Ra’s reply was not able to be transcribed due to tape recorder
malfunction. Following is the gist of their response.] We intended to speak of
freeing those of your planet from literal darkness.
11.28 QUESTIONER Would this freeing from darkness be commensurate with the
Law of One, or does this have any real product?
R A I am Ra. The product of such a freeing would create two experiences.
Firstly, the experience of no need to find the necessary emolument for
payment, in your money, for energy.
Secondly, the leisure afforded, thereby exemplifying the possibility and 
100 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
enhancing the probability of the freedom to then search the self for the
beginning of seeking the Law of One.
Few there are working physically from daybreak to darkness, as you name
them, upon your plane who can contemplate the Law of One in a
conscious fashion.
11.29 QUESTIONER What about the Industrial Revolution in general? Was this
planned in any way?
R A I am Ra. This will be the final question of this session.
That is correct. Wanderers incarnated in several waves, as you may call
them, in order to bring into existence the gradual freeing from the
demands of the diurnal cycles and lack of freedom of leisure.
11.30 QUESTIONER Well, that was the last question, so I will, as usual, ask if
there’s anything we can do to make the instrument more comfortable?
R A I am Ra. You are doing well. The most important thing is to carefully
align the symbols. The adjustment made this particular time/space
present will aid this instrument’s physical complex in the distortion
towards comfort.
May we ask if you have any short questions which we may resolve before
closing the session?
11.31 QUESTIONER I don’t know if this is a short question or not, so we can save
it till next time, but my only question is why the crusaders from Orion do
this. What is their ultimate objective? This is probably too long to answer.
R A I am Ra. This is not too long to answer. To serve the self is to serve
all. The service of the self, when seen in this perspective, requires an everexpanding use of the energies of others for manipulation to the benefit of
the self with distortion towards power.
If there are further queries to more fully explicate this subject, we shall be
with you again.
11.32 QUESTIONER Just was one thing I forgot. Is it possible to do another
session late today?
R A I am Ra. It is well.
11.33 QUESTIONER Thank you.
SESSION 11 101
R A I am Ra. I leave you in the love and the light of the One Infinite
Creator. Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One
Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 12
JANUARY 28, 1981
12.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator. I
communicate now.
12.1 QUESTIONER I got a call from Henry Puharich this afternoon. He will be
here next month. I want to ask you if it is possible for him to join in our
circle and ask questions. And also if Michel D’Obrenovic, who’s also
known as George Hunt Williamson, happens to come here, would it be
all right for him to be in the circle?
R A I am Ra. These entities, at present, are not properly attuned for the
particular work due to vibrational distortions which, in turn, are due to a
recent lack of time/space which you call busy-ness. It would be requested
that the entities spend a brief time/space in each diurnal cycle of your
planet in contemplation. At a future time/space in your continuum, you
are requested to ask again.
This group is highly balanced to this instrument’s vibratory distortions
due to, firstly, contact with the instrument on a day-to-day basis.
Secondly, due to contact with the instrument through meditation
periods. Thirdly, through a personal mind/body/spirit-complex distortion
towards contemplation which in sum causes this group to be effective.
12.2 QUESTIONER Thank you. Continuing with the previous session, you
mentioned that the Orion crusaders came here in chariots. Could you
describe a chariot?
R A I am Ra. The term chariot is a term used in warfare among your
peoples. That is its significance. The shape of the Orion craft is one of the
following: firstly, the elongated, ovoid shape which is of a darker nature
than silver but which has a metallic appearance if seen in the light. In the
absence of light, it appears to be red or fiery in some manner.
Other craft include disc-shaped objects of a small nature approximately
twelve feet in your measurement in diameter, the box-like shape
approximately forty feet to a side in your measurement. Other craft can
take on a desired shape through the use of thought control mechanisms.
There are various civilization complexes which work within this group.
Some are more able to use intelligent infinity than others. The 
SESSION 12 103
information is very seldom shared; therefore, the chariots vary greatly in
shape and appearance.
12.3 QUESTIONER Is there any effort by the Confederation to stop the Orion
chariots from arriving here?
R A I am Ra. Every effort is made to quarantine this planet. However, the
network of Guardians, much like any other pattern of patrols on whatever
level, does not hinder each and every entity from penetrating quarantine,
for if request is made in light/love, the Law of One will be met with
acquiescence. If the request is not made due to the slipping through the
net, then there is penetration of this net.
12.4 QUESTIONER Who makes this request?
R A I am Ra. Your query is unclear. Please restate.
12.5 QUESTIONER I didn’t quite understand. How does the Confederation stop
the Orion chariot from coming through the quarantine? What actions
do . . .
R A I am Ra. There is contact at the level of light-form, or light-body
being, depending upon the vibratory level of the Guardian. These
Guardians sweep reaches of your earth’s energy fields attempting to be
aware of any entities approaching. An entity which is approaching is
hailed in the name of the One Creator. Any entity thus hailed is bathed
in love/light and will of free will obey the quarantine due to the power of
the Law of One.
12.6 QUESTIONER What would happen to the entity if he did not obey the
quarantine after being hailed?
R A I am Ra. To not obey quarantine after being hailed on the level of
which we speak would be equivalent to your not stopping upon walking
into a solid brick wall.
12.7 QUESTIONER What would happen to the entity then if he did this? What’d
happen to his chariot?
R A I am Ra. The Creator is one being. The vibratory level of those able
to reach the quarantine boundaries is such that, upon seeing the love/light
net, it is impossible to break this Law. Therefore, nothing happens. No
attempt is made. There is no confrontation.
104 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
The only beings who are able to penetrate the quarantine are those who
discover windows or distortions in the space/time continua surrounding
your planet’s energy fields. Through these windows they come. These
windows are rare and unpredictable.
12.8 QUESTIONER Does this account for what we call the “UFO Flaps” where a
large number of UFOs show up like in 1973?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
12.9 Q U ESTIONER Well then, are most of the UFOs which are seen in our skies
from the Orion group?
R A I am Ra. Many of those seen in your skies are of the Orion group.
They send out messages. Some are received by those who are oriented
towards service to others. These messages then are altered to be acceptable
to those entities while warning of difficulties ahead. This is the most that
self-serving entities can do when faced with those whose wish is to serve
others. The contacts which the [Orion] group finds most helpful to their
cause are those contacts made with entities whose orientation is towards
service to self.
There are many thought-form entities in your skies which are of a
positive nature and are the projections of the Confederation. Other
sightings are due to the inadvertent visualization by your peoples’ optical
mechanisms of your own government’s weaponry.
12.10 QUESTIONER Which group was it that contacted Henry Puharich in Israel,
right around 1972?
R A I am Ra. We must refrain from answering this query due to the
possibility/probability that the one you call Henry will read this answer.
This would cause distortions in his future. It is necessary that each being
use free and complete discernment from within the all-self which is at the
heart of the mind/body/spirit complex.
12.11 QUESTIONER Does that also apply to answering who was contacting the
group that I originally was in, in 1962?
R A I am Ra. This query may be answered. The group contacted was the
Confederation.
12.12 QUESTIONER Did they have any of their craft in our area at that time?
SESSION 12 105
R A I am Ra. There was no craft. There was a thought-form.
12.13 QUESTIONER You mentioned the Orion crusaders, when they do get
through the net, give both technical and non-technical information. We
know what you mean by technical information, but what type of nontechnical information do they give to those they contact? Am I right in
assuming that this is all done by telepathic communication?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. Through telepathy, the philosophy of the
Law of One with the distortion of service to self is promulgated. In
advanced groups, there are rituals and exercises given, and these have been
written down just as the service-to-others oriented entities have written
down the promulgated philosophy of their teachers. The philosophy
concerns the service of manipulating others that they may experience
service towards the other-self, thus through this experience becoming able
to appreciate service to self. These entities thus would become oriented
towards service to self and in turn manipulate yet others so that they, in
turn, might experience the service towards the other-self.
12.14 QUESTIONER Would this be the origin of what we call black magic?
R A I am Ra. This is correct in one sense, incorrect in another. The Orion
group has aided the so-called negatively oriented among your
mind/body/spirit complexes. These same entities would be concerning
themselves with service to self in any case, and there are many upon your
so-called inner planes which are negatively oriented and thus available as
inner teachers, or guides, and so-called possessors of certain souls who
seek this distortion of service to self.
12.15 QUESTIONER Is it possible for an entity here on Earth to be so confused as
to call both the Confederation and the Orion group in an alternating
way, one, then the other, [inaudible] back to [inaudible]?
R A I am Ra. It is entirely possible for the untuned channel, as you call
that service, to receive both positive and negative communications. If the
entity at the base of its confusion is oriented towards service to others, the
entity will begin to receive messages of doom. If the entity at the base of
the complex of beingness is oriented towards service to self, the crusaders,
who in this case do not find it necessary to lie, will simply begin to give
the philosophy they are here to give.
106 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Many of your so-called contacts among your people have been confused
and self-destructive because the channels were oriented towards service to
others, but in the desire for proof were open to the lying information of
the crusaders who then were able to neutralize the effectiveness of the
channel.
12.16 QUESTIONER Are most of these crusaders fourth-density?
R A I am Ra. There is a majority of fourth-density. That is correct.
12.17 Q UESTIONER Does an individual in the fourth density normally appear, or
are they normally invisible to us?
R A I am Ra. The use of the word “normal” is one which befuddles the
meaning of the question. Let us rephrase for clarity. The fourth density is,
by choice, not visible to third density. It is possible for fourth density to
be visible. However, it is not the choice of the fourth-density entity to be
visible due to the necessity for concentration upon a rather difficult
vibrational complex which is the third density you experience.
12.18 QUESTIONER Are there any Confederation or Orion individuals living on
Earth visible to us and important in our society at this time? Walking
among us?
R A I am Ra. There are no entities of either group walking among you at
this time. However, the crusaders of Orion use two types of entities to do
their bidding, shall we say. The first type is a thought-form; the second, a
kind of robot.
12.19 QUESTIONER Could you describe the robot?
R A I am Ra. The robot may look like any other being. It is a construct.
12.20 QUESTIONER Is the robot what is normally called “Men in Black?”
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect.
12.21 QUESTIONER Who are the Men in Black?
R A I am Ra. The Men in Black are a thought-form type of entity which
have some beingness to their make-up. They have certain physical
characteristics given them. However, their true vibrational nature is
without third-density vibrational characteristics, and therefore they are
able to materialize and dematerialize when necessary.
SESSION 12 107
12.22 QUESTIONER Are all of these Men in Black then used by the Orion
crusaders?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
12.23 QUESTIONER If one were to visit me, and I grabbed him and locked him in
a closet, could I keep him, or would he disappear?
R A I am Ra. It depends upon which type of entity you grab. You are
perhaps able to perceive a construct. The construct might be kept for a
brief period, although these constructs also have an ability to disappear.
The programming on these constructs, however, makes it more difficult
to remotely control them. You would not be able to grapple with a
thought-form entity of the Men in Black, as you call it, type.
12.24 QUESTIONER Would this be against the Law of One, and I would be
making a mistake by grabbing these entities?
R A I am Ra. There are no mistakes under the Law of One.
12.25 QUESTIONER What I’m saying is, would I be polarizing more toward selfservice or toward service for others when I did this act of locking up the
thought-form or construct?
R A I am Ra. You may consider that question for yourself. We interpret
the Law of One, but not to the extent of advice.
12.26 QUESTIONER Thank you. Well, you spoke of wanderers. Who are
wanderers? Where do they come from?
R A I am Ra. Imagine, if you will, the sands of your shores. As countless as
the grains of sand are the sources of intelligent infinity.
When a social memory complex has achieved its complete understanding
of its desire, it may conclude that its desire is service to others with the
distortion towards reaching their hand, figuratively, to any entities who
call for aid. These entities, whom you may call the Brothers and Sisters of
Sorrow, move towards this calling of sorrow. These entities are from all
reaches of the infinite creation and are bound together by the desire to
serve in this distortion.
12.27 QUESTIONER How many of them are incarnate on Earth now?
108 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. The number is approximate due to an heavy influx of those
birthed at this time due to an intensive need to lighten the planetary
vibration and thus aid in harvest. The number approaches sixty-five
million.
12.28 QUESTIONER Are most of these from the fourth density? What density do
they come from?
R A I am Ra. Few there are of fourth density. The largest number of
wanderers, as you call them, are of the sixth density. The desire to serve
must be distorted towards a great deal of purity of mind and what you
may call foolhardiness or bravery, depending upon your distortion
complex judgment. The challenge/danger of the wanderer is that it will
forget its mission, become karmically involved, and thus be swept into the
maelstrom from which it had incarnated to aid the destruction.1
12.29 QUESTIONER What could one of these entities do to become karmically
involved? Could you give us an example?
R A I am Ra. An entity which acts in a consciously unloving manner in
action with other beings can become karmically involved.
12.30 QUESTIONER I just had a thought. Do any of these wanderers have physical
ailments in this earth situation?
R A I am Ra. Due to the extreme variance between the vibratory
distortions of third density and those of the more dense densities, if you
will, wanderers have, as a general rule, some form of handicap, difficulty,
or feeling of alienation which is severe. The most common of these
difficulties are alienation, the reaction against the planetary vibration by
personality disorders, as you would call them, and body complex ailments
indicating difficulty in adjustment to the planetary vibrations such as
allergies, as you would call them.
12.31 QUESTI ONER Is there a best way for these entities to heal themselves of
their physical ailments?
 1 This final sentence seems to have been confused in transmission. It’s possible Ra
intended to say something similar to: “The challenge/danger of the wanderer is
that it will forget its mission, become karmically involved, and thus be swept into
the maelstrom [into] which it had incarnated [in order] to [prevent] the
destruction.”
SESSION 12 109
R A I am Ra. This will be the last complete question of this time/space.
The self-healing distortion is effected through realization of the intelligent
infinity resting within. This is blocked in some way in those who are not
perfectly balanced in bodily complexes. The blockage varies from entity
to entity. It requires the conscious awareness of the spiritual nature of
reality, if you will, and the corresponding pourings of this reality into the
individual mind/body/spirit complex for healing to take place.
We will use this instrument as example. The portions of its ailment, as
you call this distortion complex, that can be perfected in balance are due
primarily to a blockage of the indigo-ray, or pineal, energy center. This
center receives the intelligent energy from all sources lawful within the
One Creation; that is, lawful in this third-density distortion or illusion. If
there is no blockage, these energies pour or stream down into the
mind/body/spirit complex, perfecting, moment by moment, the
individual’s body complex.
This instrument also experiences some distortion of the green-ray energy
center which you may call the heart center. It is overly open due to an
intensive desire-distortion on the part of this mind/body/spirit complex
towards service to others, or as you may call it, universal love. This entity,
therefore, spends itself without regard to its reserves of mind/body/spiritcomplex distortion in regard to what you call strength or energy. This
distortion is primarily due to the blockage of the indigo ray, as we have
said before. The misapprehension-distortion of the instrument
responsible for this blockage is the basic orientation towards a belief in
unworthiness. The unworthiness-distortion blocks the free flow of
intelligent energy.
The seventh, or violet, ray is unimpaired, this being not only an energy
receptor but a sum total of the vibratory level of the individual. The other
energy centers are also quite clear. The solution to healing in this case is
action that puts into practice the peaceful understanding, in humilitydistortion, that the entity is one with the Creator, therefore perfected and
not separate. In each case of what you would call ill health, one or more
of these energy centers is blocked. The intelligence of the
mind/body/spirit complex needs, then, to be alerted either by the self as
healer or by the catalyst of another healer, as we have said before.
Is there a short question before we close this session?
110 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
12.32 QUESTIONER Is it possible for you to tell us if any of the three of us are and
have been wanderers?
R A I am Ra. In scanning each of the mind/body/spirit complexes present,
we find an already complete assurance of this occurrence and, therefore,
find no harm in recapitulating this occurrence. Each of those present are
wanderers pursuing a mission, if you will.
12.33 QUESTIONER Thank you. Is there anything that we can do to make the
instrument more comfortable?
R A I am Ra. We ask you to realign the object upon which the symbols sit.
It is not a significant distortion for one session only, but you will find
upon measuring the entire assemblage that the resting place is one point
four degrees [1.4°] from the correct alignment, the resting place an
additional one-half degree [0.5°] away from proper orientation. Do not
concern yourselves overly with this in the space/time nexus present, but
do not allow these distortions to remain over a long period or the contact
will be gradually impaired.
I am Ra. I leave you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. Go forth, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One
Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 13
JANUARY 29, 1981
13.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator. I
communicate now.
13.1 QUESTIONER First thing I would like to do is apologize for the stupid
questions that I’ve asked while searching for what we should do. I
consider what we are doing a great honor and privilege to be also humble
messengers of the Law of One, and at this time believe that the way to
prepare this book is to start at the beginning of creation following the
evolution of man, and the evolution of man on Earth, to the best of my
[inaudible], at all times investigating how the Law of One was used
[inaudible]. I think also that . . . that I need to finish the book. . . let the
material that we have already carry the end of the book. [inaudible]
I would also suggest the title of the book, The Law of One. I’d like to state
as the author, Ra. Would you agree to this?
R A I am Ra. Your query is unclear. Would you please state as separate
queries each area of agreement?
13.2 QUESTIONER First, I’d like to start at the beginning of creation, as far back
as we can go, and follow the development of man to the present time. Is
this agreeable?
R A I am Ra. This is completely your discernment/understanding/
decision.
13.3 QUESTIONER Secondly, I would like to title the book The Law of One, by
Ra. Is this agreeable?1
R A I am Ra. The title of the book is acceptable. The authorship by
vibratory sound complex Ra is, in our distortion of understanding,
incomplete. We are messengers.
 1 The original transcripts from the cassette recordings were published in four
books under the title, The Law of One. (A fifth book containing fragments omitted
from Books I–IV, along with accompanying commentary from Carla and Jim, was
published years later in 1998.) See “The Relistening Report” at the end of this
book for information about how the new transcripts were produced and
consequently this book, The Ra Contact, published.
112 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
13.4 QUESTIONER Can you state who then should author the book?
R A I can only request that if your discernment/understanding suggests
the use of this vibratory sound complex, Ra, the phrase “An humble
messenger of the Law of One” be appended.
13.5 QUESTIONER Thank you. Can you tell me of the earliest, first known thing
in the creation?
R A I am Ra. The first known thing in the creation is infinity. The infinity
is creation.
13.6 QUESTIONER From this infinity then must have come what we experience
as creation. What was the next step or the next evolvement?
R A I am Ra. Infinity became aware. This was the next step.
13.7 QUESTIONER After this, what happened?
R A Awareness led to the focus of infinity into infinite energy. You have
called this by various vibrational sound complexes, the most common to
your ears being “Logos” or “Love.” The Creator is the focusing of infinity
as an aware or conscious principle called by us, as closely as we can create
understanding/learning in your language, intelligent infinity.
13.8 QUESTIONER Can you state the next step?
RA The next step is still, at this space/time nexus in your illusion,
achieving its progression as you may see it in your illusion. The next step
is an infinite reaction to the Creative Principle following the Law of One
in one of its primal distortions, freedom of will. Thus many, many
dimensions, infinite in number, are possible.
The energy moves from the intelligent infinity due, first, to the
outpouring of randomized creative force, this then creating patterns
which, in holographic style, appear as the entire creation no matter which
direction or energy is explored. These patterns of energy begin then to
regularize their own local, shall we say, rhythms and fields of energy, thus
creating dimensions and universes.
13.9 QUESTIONER Then can you tell me how the galaxy and this planetary
system were formed?
SESSION 13 113
R A I am Ra. You must imagine a great leap of thought in this query, for
at the last query the physical, as you call it, universes were not yet born.
The energies moved in increasingly intelligent patterns until the
individualization of various energies emanating from the Creative
Principle of intelligent infinity became such as to be co-Creators. Thus
the so-called physical matter began. The concept of Light is instrumental
in grasping this great leap of thought, as this vibrational distortion of
infinity is the building block of that which is known as matter, the Light
being intelligent and full of energy, thus being the first distortion of
intelligent infinity which was called by the Creative Principle.
This Light of Love was made to have in its occurrences of being certain
characteristics, among them the infinite whole paradoxically described by
the straight line, as you would call it. This paradox is responsible for the
shape of the various physical illusion entities you call solar systems,
galaxies, and planets, all revolving and tending towards the lenticular.
13.10 QUESTIONER I think I made an error in asking that question, getting ahead
of the process that you were describing. Would it be helpful to fill in that
great leap that I mistakenly made?
R A I am Ra. I attempted to bridge the gap. However, you may question
me in any manner you deem appropriate.
13.11 QUESTIONER Could you tell me . . . taking the question previous to the
one that I asked about galaxy and planets, would you tell me the next step
that occurred after that step?
R A I am Ra. The steps, as you call them, are, at the point of question,
simultaneous and infinite.
13.12 QUESTIONER Could you tell me how intelligent infinity became, shall we
say—I’m having difficulty with some of the language—how intelligent
infinity became individualized from itself?
R A I am Ra. This is an appropriate question.
The intelligent infinity discerned a concept. This concept was discerned
due to freedom of will of awareness. This concept was finity. This was the
first and primal paradox or distortion of the Law of One. Thus the one
intelligent infinity invested itself in an exploration of many-ness. Due to
the infinite possibilities of intelligent infinity, there is no ending to many-
114 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
ness. The exploration, thus, is free to continue infinitely in an eternal
present.
13.13 QUESTIONER Was the galaxy that we are in created by the infinite
intelligence, or was it created by a portion of the individualized infinite
intelligence?
R A I am Ra. The galaxy, and all other things of material of which you are
aware, are products of individualized portions of intelligent infinity. As
each exploration began, it, in turn, found its focus and became coCreator. Using intelligent infinity, each portion created an universe,
and—allowing the rhythms of free choice to flow, playing with the
infinite spectrum of possibilities—each individualized portion channeled
the love/light into what you might call intelligent energy, thus creating
the so-called natural laws of any particular universe.
Each universe, in turn, individualized to a focus, becoming, in turn, coCreator, and allowing further diversity, thus creating further intelligent
energies, regularizing or causing natural laws to appear in the vibrational
patterns of what you would call a solar system. Thus, each solar system
has its own, shall we say, local coordinate system of illusory natural laws.
It shall be understood that any portion, no matter how small, of any
density or illusory pattern contains, as in an holographic picture, the One
Creator which is infinity. Thus all begins and ends in mystery.
13.14 QUESTIONER Could you tell me how the individualized portion of
intelligent infinity created our galaxy [inaudible] that the same portion
created our planetary system and, if so, how this came about?
R A I am Ra. We may have misperceived your query. We were under the
distortion/impression that we had responded to this particular query.
Would you restate the query?
13.15 QUESTIONER Primarily, then, how the, shall we say, the planetary system
that we are in now evolved—was it all created at once, or was there first
our sun created and this [inaudible] was created?
R A I am Ra. The process is from the larger, in your illusion, to the
smaller. Thus the co-Creator, individualizing the galaxy, created energy
patterns which then focused in multitudinous focuses of further conscious
awareness of intelligent infinity. Thus, the solar system of which you
experience inhabitation is of its own patterns, rhythms, and so-called 
SESSION 13 115
natural laws which are unique to itself. However, the progression is from
the galaxy spiraling energy, to the solar spiraling energy, to the planetary
spiraling energy, to the experiential circumstances of spiraling energy
which begin the first density of awareness, or consciousness, of planetary
entities.
13.16 QUESTIONER Could you tell me about this first density of planetary
entities?
R A I am Ra. Each step recapitulates intelligent infinity in its discovery of
awareness. In a planetary environment, all begins in what you would call
chaos, energy undirected and random in its infinity. Slowly, in your terms
of understanding, there forms a focus of self-awareness. Thus the Logos
moves. Light comes to form the darkness according to the co-Creator’s
patterns and vibratory rhythms, so constructing a certain type of
experience.
This begins with first density which is the density of consciousness, the
mineral and water life upon the planet learning from fire and wind the
awareness of being. This is the first density.
13.17 QUESTIONER Does this first density then progress to greater awareness?
R A The spiraling energy, which is the characteristic of what you call light,
moves in straight-line spiral, thus giving spirals an inevitable vector
upwards to a more comprehensive beingness with regards to intelligent
infinity. Thus, first dimensional beingness strives towards the seconddensity lessons of a type of awareness which includes growth rather than
dissolution or random change.
13.18 QUESTIONER Could you define what you mean by growth?
R A I am Ra. Picture, if you will, the difference between first-vibrational
mineral or water life and the lower second-density beings which begin to
move about within and upon its being. This movement is the
characteristic of second density, the striving towards light and growth.
13.19 QUESTIONER By striving toward light, what do you mean?
R A I am Ra. A very simplistic example of second-density growth striving
towards light is that of the leaf striving towards the source of light.
13.20 QUESTIONER Is there any physical difference between first and second 
116 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
density? For instance, if I could see a second-density planet and a firstdensity planet side by side, in my present condition, could I see both of
them? Would they be both visible?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. All of the octave of your densities would be
clearly visible were not the fourth through the seventh freely choosing not
to be visible.
13.21 QUESTIONER Then how does the second density progress to the third?
R A I am Ra. The second density strives towards the third density, which
is the density of self-consciousness, or self-awareness. The striving takes
place through the higher second-density forms who are invested by thirddensity beings with an identity to the extent that they become self-aware
mind/body complexes, thus becoming mind/body/spirit complexes and
entering third density, the first density of consciousness of spirit.
13.22 QUESTIONER What is the density level of our planet Earth at this time?
R A I am Ra. The sphere upon which you dwell is third density in its
beingness of mind/body/spirit complexes. It is now in a space/time
continuum, fourth density. This is causing a somewhat difficult harvest.
13.23 QUESTIONER How does a third-density planet become a fourth-density?
R A I am Ra. This will be the last full question.
The fourth density is, as we have said, as regularized in its approach as the
striking of a clock upon the hour. The space/time of your solar system has
enabled this planetary sphere to spiral into space/time of a different
vibrational configuration. This causes the planetary sphere to be able to
be molded by these new distortions. However, the thought-forms of your
people during this transition period are such that the mind/body/spirit
complexes of both individual and societies are scattered throughout the
spectrum instead of becoming able to grasp the needle, shall we say, and
point the compass in one direction.
Thus, the entry into the vibration of love, sometimes called by your
people the vibration of understanding, is not effective with the present
societal complex. Thus, the harvest shall be such that many will repeat the
third-density cycle. The energies of your wanderers, your teachers, and
your adepts at this time are all bent upon increasing the harvest.
However, there are few to harvest.
SESSION 13 117
13.24 QUESTIONER I would like to apologize for asking sometimes wrong or
inappropriate questions. It’s difficult sometimes to ask precisely the right
question. I don’t wish to go over any ground that we’ve already covered. I
notice this period is slightly shorter than previous periods. Is there a
reason for this?
R A I am Ra. This instrument’s vital energy is somewhat low.
13.25 QUESTIONER I am assuming from this that it would be a good idea not to
have another session today. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. It is well to have a session later if it is acceptable that we
monitor this instrument and cease using it when it becomes low in the
material which we take from it. We do not wish to deplete this
instrument.
13.26 QUESTIONER This is always acceptable in any session. I will ask my final
question. Is there anything that we can do to make the instrument more
comfortable or facilitate these communications?
R A I am Ra. It is well. Each is most conscientious. Continue in the same.
Is there any other short query?
13.27 QUESTIONER Tom Flaherty will be here this evening and will be helping in
the evening session. Is this all right?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
I am Ra. I leave you in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator.
Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One
Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 14
JANUARY 29, 1981
14.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator.
We communicate now.
14.1 QUESTIONER Going back over this morning’s work, [inaudible]. You said
the second density strives towards the third density, which is the density
of self-consciousness, or self-awareness. The striving takes place through
higher second-density forms invested by third-density beings. Could you
explain what you mean by this?
R A I am Ra. Much as you would put on a vestment, so do your thirddensity beings invest or clothe some second-density beings with selfawareness. This is often done through the opportunity of what you call
pets. It has also been done by various other means of investiture. These
include many so-called religious practice complexes which personify and
send love to various natural second-density beings in their group form.
14.2 QUESTIONER When this earth was second-density, how did the seconddensity beings on this earth become so invested?
R A There was not this type of investment as spoken but the simple thirddensity investment which is the line of spiraling light calling distortion
upward from density to density. The process takes longer when there is
no investment made by incarnate third-density beings.
14.3 QUESTIONER Then what was the second-density form—what did it look
like—that became earth-man in the third density? What did he look like
in the second density?
R A I am Ra. The difference between second- and third-density bodily
forms would in many cases have been more like one to the other. In the
case of your planetary sphere the process was interrupted by those who
incarnated here from the planetary sphere you call Mars. They were
adjusted by genetic changing and, therefore, there was some difference
which was of a very noticeable variety rather than the gradual raising of
the bipedal forms upon your second-density level to third-density level.
This has nothing to do with the so-called placement of the soul. This has
only to do with the circumstances of the influx of those from that culture.
SESSION 14 119
14.4 QUESTIONER I understand from previous material that this occurred
75,000 years ago. Then it was our third-density process of evolution
began. Can you tell me the history, hitting only the points of
development, shall I say, that occurred within this 75,000 years, any
particular times or points where the attempts were made to increase the
development of this third density?
R A I am Ra. The first attempt to aid your peoples was at the time seven
five oh oh oh [75,000]. This attempt, seventy-five thousand [75,000] of
your years ago, has been previously described by us.1
The next attempt was approximately five eight oh oh oh, fifty-eight
thousand [58,000] of your years ago, continuing for a long period in your
measurement, with those of Mu, as you call this race, or mind/body/spirit
social complex.
The next attempt was long in coming and occurred approximately
thirteen thousand [13,000] of your years ago when some intelligent
information was offered to those of Atlantis, this being of the same type
of healing and crystal working of which we have spoken previously.2
The next attempt was one one oh oh oh, eleven thousand [11,000], of
your years ago. These are approximations as we are not totally able to
process your space/time continuum measurement system. This was in
what you call Egypt, and of this we have also spoken.3
The same beings which came with us returned approximately three five
oh oh [3,500] years later in order to attempt to aid the South American
mind/body/spirit social complex once again. However, the pyramids of
those so-called cities were not to be used in the appropriate fashion.
Therefore, this was not pursued further.
There was a landing approximately three oh oh oh, three thousand
[3,000], of your years ago also in your South America, as you call it.
There were a few attempts to aid your peoples approximately two three
oh oh [2,300] years ago, this in the area of Egypt.4 The remaining part of
 1 Previously described in 9.6–12.
2 Spoken previously in 2.2–3.
3 Also spoken in 2.2.
4 This has been corrected by Ra to 3,300 years ago in session 17.
120 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
the cycle, we have never been gone from your fifth dimension and have
been working in this last minor cycle to prepare for harvest.
14.5 QUESTIONER Was the Egyptian visit of 11,000 years ago the only one
where you actually walked the earth?
R A I am Ra. I understand your question distorted in the direction of
selves rather than other-selves. We of the vibratory sound complex, Ra,
have walked among you only at that time.
14.6 QUESTIONER I understood you to say in an earlier session that pyramids
were built to ring the earth. How many pyramids were built?
R A I am Ra. There are six balancing pyramids and five two, fifty-two [52]
others built for additional healing and initiatory work among your
mind/body/spirit social complexes.
14.7 QUESTIONER What is a balancing pyramid?
R A I am Ra. Imagine, if you will, the many force fields of the earth in
their geometrically precise web. Energies stream into the earth planes, as
you would call them, from magnetically determined points. Due to
growing thought-form distortions in understanding of the Law of One,
the planet itself was seen to have the potential for imbalance. The
balancing pyramidal structures were charged with crystals which drew the
appropriate balance from the energy forces streaming into the various
geometrical centers of electromagnetic energy which surround and shape
the planetary sphere.
14.8 QUESTIONER Let me make a synopsis and you tell me if I am correct. All of
these visits for the last 75,000 years were for the purpose of giving to the
people of Earth an understanding of the Law of One, and this way allow
them to progress upward through the fourth, fifth, sixth densities. This
was to be a service to Earth. The pyramids were used also in giving the
Law of One in their own way. The balancing pyramids, I’m not quite
sure of. Am I right so far?
R A I am Ra. You are correct to the limits of the precision allowed by
language.
14.9 QUESTIONER Did the balancing pyramid cause the earth from changing its
axis?
SESSION 14 121
R A I am Ra. This query is not clear. Please restate.
14.10 QUESTIONER Does the balancing refer to balancing of the individual who
is initiated in the pyramid, or does it refer to the physical balancing of the
earth on its axis in space?
R A I am Ra. The balancing pyramidal structures could [be] and were
used for individual initiation. However, the use of these pyramids was
also designed for the balancing of the planetary energy web.
The other pyramids are not placed properly for earth healing but for
healing of mind/body/spirit complexes. It came to our attention that your
density was distorted towards, what is called by our distortionunderstanding of third density, a premature aging process. We were
attempting to aid in giving the mind/body/spirit complexes of third
density on your planetary sphere more of a time/space continuum in one
incarnation pattern in order to have a fuller opportunity to learn/teach
the Laws, or Ways, of the primal distortion of the Law of One which is
Love.
14.11 QUESTIONER I will make this statement. You can tell me if I am correct.
The way I understand it, the balancing pyramids were to do what we call
increase the life span of entities here so that they would gain more
wisdom of the Law of One while in the physical at one time. Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. However, the pyramids not called by us by
the vibrational sound complex, balancing pyramids, were more numerous
and were used exclusively for the above purpose and the teach/learning of
healers to charge and enable these processes.
14.12 QUESTIONER George Van Tassel built a machine in our western desert
called an “Integratron.” Will this machine work for that purpose of
increasing the life span?
R A I am Ra. The machine is incomplete and will not function for the
above-mentioned purpose.
14.13 QUESTIONER Who gave George the information on how to build it?
R A I am Ra. There were two contacts which gave the entity with
vibratory sound complex, George, this information. One was of the 
122 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Confederation. The second was of the Orion group. The Confederation
was caused to find the distortion towards non-contact due to the
alteration of the vibrational mind complex patterns of the one called
George. Thus, the Orion group used this instrument; however, this
instrument, though confused, was a mind/body/spirit complex devoted at
the heart to service to others, so the, shall we say, worst that could be
done was to discredit this source.
14.14 QUESTIONER Would there be any value to the people of this planet now, at
this time, to complete this machine?
R A I am Ra. The harvest is now. There is not at this time any reason to
include efforts along these distortions towards longevity, but rather to
encourage distortions toward seeking the heart of self, for this which
resides clearly in the violet-ray energy field will determine the harvesting
of each mind/body/spirit complex.
14.15 QUESTIONER Going back to the start of this 75,000-year period, there was
the harvesting 25,000 years after the start, which would make it 50,000
years ago, I would assume. Can you tell me how many were harvested
from our planet at that time?
R A I am Ra. The harvest was none.
14.16 QUESTIONER There was no harvest? What about 25,000 years ago? Was
there a harvest then?
R A I am Ra. A harvesting began taking place in the latter portion, as you
measure time/space, of the second cycle, with individuals finding the
gateway to intelligent infinity. The harvest of that time, though extremely
small, were those entities of extreme distortion towards service to the
entities which now were to repeat the major cycle. These entities,
therefore, remained in third density although they could, at any
moment/present nexus, leave this density through use of intelligent
infinity.
14.17 QUESTIONER Then the harvest 25,000 years ago, the entities who could
have been harvested to the fourth density remained here in service to this
planetary population. Is this correct?
SESSION 14 123
R A I am Ra. This is correct. Thus, there was no harvest, but there were
harvestable entities who shall choose the manner of their entrance into
fourth dimension.
14.18 QUESTIONER Then for the last 2,300 years5 you have been actively working
to create as large a harvest as possible at the end of the total 75,000-year
cycle. Can you state with respect to the Law of One why you do this, just
as a statement of your reasons for this?
R A I am Ra. I speak for the social memory complex termed Ra. We came
among you to aid you. Our efforts in service were perverted. Our desire
then is to eliminate, as far as possible, the distortions caused by those
misreading our information and guidance.
The general cause of service such as the Confederation offers is that of the
primal distortion of the Law of One, which is service. The One Being of
the creation is like unto a body, if you will accept this third-density
analogy. Would we ignore a pain in the leg? A bruise upon the skin? A
cut which is festering? No. There is no ignoring a call. We, the entities of
sorrow, choose as our service the attempt to heal the sorrow which we are
calling analogous to the pains of a physical body complex distortion.
14.19 QUESTIONER At what density level is Ra?
R A I am Ra. I am sixth density with a strong seeking towards seventh
density. The harvest for us will be in only approximately two and one-half
million of your years, and it is our desire to be ready for harvest as it
approaches in our space/time continuum.
14.20 QUESTIONER And you ready yourselves for harvest through the best service
you can provide. Is this correct?
R A This is correct. We offer the Law of One, the solving of paradoxes,
the balancing of love/light and light/love.
14.21 QUESTIONER How long is one of your cycles?
R A I am Ra. One of our cycles computes to seven five oh, oh oh oh, oh
oh oh [750,000,000], seven five million [75,000,000] of your years.6
 5 This has been corrected by Ra to 3,300 years ago in session 17.
6 When Ra first recites the digits for this number they indicate 750 million, but then
they state the number as 75 million. Don seeks clarification in the next question.
124 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
14.22 QUESTIONER 75 million?
R A That is correct.
14.23 QUESTIONER In your service in giving the Law of One, do you work with
any planets other than the Earth at this time, or just Earth?
R A I am Ra. We work only with this planetary sphere at this time.
14.24 QUESTIONER You stated that you were called by 352,000 Earth entities.
Does this mean that this number is the number who will understand and
accept the Law of One? Am I correct?
R A I am Ra. We cannot estimate the correctness of your statement, for
those who call are not in every case able to understand the answer to their
calling. Moreover, those who were not calling previously may, with great
trauma, discover the answers to the call nearly simultaneously with their
late call. There is no time/space in call. Therefore, we cannot estimate the
number of your mind/body/spirit complexes which will, in your
space/time-continuum distortion, hear and understand.
14.25 QUESTIONER How do you perform your normal service? How have you
normally given the Law of One over the last 2,300 years?7 How have you
normally given this to Earth people?
R A I am Ra. We have used channels such as this one, but in most cases
the channels feel inspired by dreams and visions without being aware,
consciously, of our identity or existence. This particular group has been
accentuatedly trained to recognize such contact. This makes this group
able to be aware of a focal, or vibrational, source of information.
14.26 QUESTIONER When you contact the entities in their dreams and otherwise,
these entities, I assume, have to be first seeking in the direction of the
Law of One. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. For example, the entities of the nation of
Egypt were in a state of pantheism, as you may call the distortion towards
separate worship of various portions of the Creator. We were able to
contact one whose orientation was towards the One.
 7 This has been corrected by Ra to 3,300 years ago in session 17.
SESSION 14 125
14.27 QUESTIONER The trauma—I’ll just call it that—I assume this will, as the
cycle ends, have some inconvenience [inaudible]. There will be some
entities who start seeking or get catalicized, you might say, into seeking
because of the trauma and will then maybe hear your words through
possibly telepathy or written material such as we will publish as this book.
R A I am Ra. You are correct except in understanding that the
inconveniences have begun.
14.28 QUESTIONER Can you tell me who was responsible for transmitting the
book Oahspe?
R A I am Ra. This was transmitted by one of Confederation social
memory complex status whose idea, as offered to the Council, was to use
some of the known physical history of the so-called religions, or religious
distortions, of your cycle in order to veil and partially unveil aspects or
primal distortions of the Law of One. All names can be taken to be
created for their vibrational characteristics. The information buried
within has to do with a deeper understanding of love and light and the
attempts of infinite intelligence through many messengers to teach/learn
those entities of your sphere.
14.29 QUESTIONER Have there been any other books that you can name that are
available for this purpose that have been given by the Confederation?
R A I am Ra. We cannot share this information, for it would distort your
discernment patterns in your future. You may ask about a particular
volume.
14.30 QUESTIONER The Urantia Book, which I haven’t read. Who gave that?
R A I am Ra. This was given by a series of discarnate entities of your own
Earth planes, the so-called inner planes. This material is not passed by the
Council.
14.31 QUESTIONER The Edgar Cayce material. Who spoke through Edgar
Cayce?
R A I am Ra. No entity spoke through Edgar Cayce.
14.32 QUESTIONER Where did the information come from that Edgar Cayce
channeled?
126 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. We have explained before that the intelligent infinity is
brought into intelligent energy from eighth density, or the octave.8 The
one, vibratory sound complex called Edgar, used this gateway to view the
present, which is not the continuum you experience but the potential
social memory complex of this planetary sphere. The term your peoples
have used for this is the “Akashic Record” or the “Hall of Records.” This
is the last question which you may now ask.
14.33 QUESTIONER Is there anything that we can do to make the instrument
more comfortable or help during the transmission?
R A I am Ra. We only reiterate the importance of alignment. This
instrument is placed point two degrees [0.2°] away from the direction of
the resting place, which is correct. This may be “eyed,” shall we say, by
sight and the instrument reminded. You are being conscientious. Is there
any brief question we may answer before this session is closed?
14.34 QUESTIONER Can you tell me if we are accomplishing our effort reasonably
well?
R A I am Ra. The Law is One. There are no mistakes.
I am Ra. I leave this instrument in the love and the light of the One
Infinite Creator. Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and the peace
of the One Creator. Adonai.
 8 Explained before in 4.2, 5.1, 6.1, 11.8, and 11.20.
SESSION 15
JANUARY 30, 1981
15.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator. I
communicate now.
15.1 QUESTIONER I would like to apologize for my past and any future stupid
questions due to the fact that I am searching for the proper entry into
investigating the Law of One. We will be eliminating the stupid ones
from the book.1
I would like to ask if the use of the instrument is a function of the time
we use the instrument, or the amount of information, or the number of
words the instrument gives? In other words, do I have to hurry and ask
the questions, or can I take my time to ask the questions?
R A I am Ra. There are two portions to your query. Firstly, this
instrument’s reserve of vital energy, which is a product of body, mind,
and spirit distortions in the various complexes, is the key to the length of
time which we may expend using this instrument. We searched your
group when we contacted you, for each in your group possesses
significantly more vital energy of the body complex. However, this
instrument was tuned most appropriately by the mind/body/spiritcomplex distortions of its beingness in this illusion. Therefore, we
remained with this instrument.
Secondly, we communicate at a set rate which is dependent upon our
careful manipulation of this instrument. We cannot be more, as you
would say, quick. Therefore, you may ask questions speedily, but the
answers we have to offer are at a set pace given.
15.2 QUESTIONER This isn’t exactly what I meant. If it takes me, say, forty-five
minutes to ask my questions, does that give the instrument only fifteen
minutes to answer rather than an hour, or would we run over an hour
and the instrument could answer for more?
R A I am Ra. The energy required for this contact is entered into this
instrument by a function of time. Therefore, the time is the factor, as we
understand your query.
 1 The missing questions and answers have been restored.
128 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
15.3 QUESTIONER Then I should ask my questions rapidly so that I do not
reduce the time. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. You shall do as you deem fit. However, we may suggest that
to obtain the answers you require may mean that you invest some of what
you experience as time. Although you lose the answer-time, you gain
thereby in the specificity of the answer, as many times in the past we have
needed clarification of hastily phrased questions.
15.4 QUESTIONER Thank you. The first question is: Why does rapid aging
occur on this planet?
R A I am Ra. Rapid aging occurs upon this third-density planet due to an
ongoing imbalance of receptor web complex in the etheric portion of the
energy field of this planet. The thought-form distortions of your peoples
have caused the energy streamings to enter the planetary magnetic
atmosphere—if you would so term this web of energy patterns—in such a
way that the proper streamings are not correctly imbued with balanced
vibratory light/love from the, shall we say, cosmic level of this octave of
existence.
15.5 QUESTIONER Do I assume correctly in assuming that one of your attempts
in service to this planet was to help the population of this planet more
fully understand and practice the Law of One so that this aging, rapid
aging could be changed to normal aging?
R A I am Ra. You assume correctly to a great degree.
15.6 QUESTIONER Then it would be very beneficial for the people of this planet,
in practicing the Law of One, to learn ways of service. Am I correct?
R A I am Ra. You are correct. If you will observe those oriented through a
lifetime-experiential-distortion complex from near the beginning of that
experience, you will observe a relatively youthful, as you would call it,
appearance.
15.7 QUESTIONER What is the greatest service that our population on this
planet could perform individually?
R A I am Ra. There is but one service. The Law is One. The offering of
self to Creator is the greatest service—the unity, the fountainhead. The
entity who seeks the One Creator is with infinite intelligence. From this
seeking, from this offering, a great multiplicity of opportunities will 
SESSION 15 129
evolve depending upon the mind/body/spirit complex’s distortions with
regard to the various illusory aspects, or energy centers, of the various
complexes of your illusion.
Thus, some become healers, some workers, some teachers, and so forth.
15.8 QUESTIONER If an entity were perfectly balanced on this planet with
respect to the Law of One, would he undergo the aging process?
R A I am Ra. A perfectly balanced entity would become tired rather than
visibly aged. The lessons being learned, the entity would depart.
However, this is appropriate and is a form of aging which your peoples do
not experience. The understanding comes slowly, the body complex
decomposing more rapidly.
15.9 QUESTIONER Can you tell me a little bit about the definition of the word
“balancing” as we are using it?
R A I am Ra. Picture, if you will, the One Infinite. You have no picture.
Thus, the process begins. Love creating Light, becoming love/light,
streams into the planetary sphere according to the electromagnetic web of
points, or nexi, of entrance. These streamings are then available to the
individual who, like the planet, is a web of electromagnetic energy fields
with points, or nexi, of entrance.
In a balanced individual each energy center is balanced and functioning
brightly and fully. The blockages of your planetary sphere cause some
distortion of intelligent energy. The blockages of the mind/body/spirit
complex further distort, or unbalance, this energy. There is one energy. It
may be understood as love/light, or light/love, or intelligent energy.
15.10 QUESTIONER Am I correct in assuming that one of the blockages of a
mind/body/spirit complex might be due to an unbalance of, shall we say,
ego, and this could be balanced using, say, a worthiness/unworthiness
balance?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect.
15.11 QUESTIONER Can you tell me how you balance the ego?
R A I am Ra. We cannot work with this concept as it is misapplied, and
understanding cannot come from it.
130 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
15.12 QUESTIONER How does an individual go about balancing himself? What is
the first step?
R A I am Ra. The steps are only one; that is, an understanding of the
energy centers which make up the mind/body/spirit complex. This
understanding may be briefly summarized as follows.
The first balancing is of the Malkuth, or Earth, vibratory energy complex,
called the red-ray complex. An understanding and acceptance of this
energy is fundamental.
The next energy complex which may be blocked is the emotional, or
personal, complex also known as the orange-ray complex. This blockage
will often demonstrate itself as personal eccentricities or distortions with
regard to self-conscious understanding, or acceptance, of self.
The third blockage resembles most closely that which you have called ego.
It is the yellow-ray, or solar plexus, center. Blockages in this center will
often manifest as distortions towards power manipulation and other social
behaviors concerning those close and those associated with the
mind/body/spirit complex.
Those with blockages in these first three energy centers, or nexi, will have
continuing difficulties in ability to further their seeking of the Law of
One.
The center of heart, or green ray, is the center from which third-density
beings may springboard, shall we say, towards infinite intelligence.
Blockages in this area may manifest as difficulties in expressing what you
may call universal love, or compassion.
The blue-ray center of energy streaming is the center which, for the first
time, is outgoing as well as inpouring. Those blocked in this area may
have difficulty in grasping the spirit/mind complexes of its own entity,
and further difficulty in expressing such understandings of self. Entities
blocked in this area may have difficulties in accepting communication
from other mind/body/spirit complexes.
The next center is the pineal, or indigo-ray, center. Those blocked in this
center may experience a lessening of the influx of intelligent energy due to
manifestations which appear as unworthiness. This is that of which you
spoke. As you can see, this is but one of many distortions due to the
several points of energy influx into the mind/body/spirit complex. 
SESSION 15 131
The indigo-ray balancing is quite central to the type of work which
revolves about the spirit complex (which has its influx then into the
transformation, or transmutation, of third density to fourth density), it
being the energy center receiving the least distorted outpourings of
love/light from intelligent energy and having also the potential for the key
to the gateway of intelligent infinity.
The remaining center of energy influx is simply the total expression of the
entity’s vibratory complex of mind, body, and spirit. It is as it will be.
“Balanced” or “imbalanced” has no meaning at this energy level, for it
gives and takes in its own balance. Whatever the distortion may be, it
cannot be manipulated as can the others and, therefore, has no particular
importance in viewing the balancing of an entity.
15.13 QUESTIONE R You previously gave us some information about what we
should do in balancing.2 Is there any information that we can publish
now about any particular exercises or methods of balancing these centers?
R A I am Ra. The exercises given for publication, seen in comparison with
the material now given, are, in total, a good beginning. It is important to
allow each seeker to enlighten itself rather than for any messenger to
attempt in language to teach/learn for the entity, thus being teach/learner
and learn/teacher. This is not in balance with your third density. We
learn from you. We teach to you. Thus, we teach/learn. If we learned for
you, this would cause imbalance in the direction of the distortion of free
will.
There are other items of information allowable. However, you have not
yet reached these items in your lines of questioning, and it is our
belief/feeling complex that the questioner shall shape this material in such
a way that your mind/body/spirit complexes shall have entry to it. Thus,
we answer your queries as they arise in your mind complex.
15.14 QUESTIONER Yesterday you stated, “The harvest is now. There is not at
this time any reason to include efforts upon these distortions toward
longevity, but rather to encourage distortions towards the heart of self.
For this which resides clearly in the violet-ray energy field will determine
the harvest of each mind/body/spirit complex.” Could you tell us how to
seek, or the best way to seek, the heart of self?
 2 Previously given in 5.2 and 15.12.
132 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. We have given you this information in several wordings.3
However, we can only say the material for your understanding is the self:
the mind/body/spirit complex. You have been given information upon
healing, as you call this distortion.4 This information may be seen in a
more general context as ways to understand the self.
The understanding, experiencing, accepting, and merging of self with self
and with other-self and, finally, with the Creator, is the path to the heart
of self. In each infinitesimal part of your self resides the One in all of Its
power. Therefore, we can only encourage these lines of contemplation,
always stating the prerequisite of meditation, contemplation, or prayer as
a means of subjectively/objectively using or combining various
understandings to enhance the seeking process. Without such a method
of reversing the analytical process, one could not integrate into unity the
many understandings gained in such seeking.
15.15 QUESTIONER I don’t mean to ask the same question twice, but there are
some areas I consider so important that greater understanding may be
obtained by possible restatement in other words. I thank you very much
for your patience.
Yesterday, you also mentioned that when there was no harvest at the end
of the last 25,000-year period: “There were harvestable entities who shall
choose the manner of their entrance into the fourth density.” Can you tell
me what you mean by how “they will choose the manner of their entrance
into the fourth density”?
R A I am Ra. These shepherds, or, as some have called them, the “Elder
Race,” shall choose the time/space of their leaving. They are unlikely to
leave until their other-selves are harvestable also.
15.16 QUESTIONER What do you mean by their other-selves being harvestable?
R A I am Ra. The other-selves with whom these beings are concerned are
those which did not attain harvest during the second major cycle.
15.17 QUESTIONER Could you tell me just a small amount of the history of what
you call the Elder Race?
 3 Including 10.14 and 15.12.
4 In 4.17 and 5.2.
SESSION 15 133
R A I am Ra. The question is unclear. Please restate.
15.18 QUESTIONER I ask this question because I’ve heard about the Elder Race
before in a book, Road in the Sky, by George Hunt Williamson, and I was
wondering if this Elder Race was the same that he talked about?
R A I am Ra. The question now resolves itself, for we have spoken
previously5 of the manner of decision-making which caused these entities
to remain here upon the closing of the second major cycle of your current
master cycle.
There are some distortions in the descriptions of the one known as
Michel6
; however, these distortions have primarily to do with the fact that
these entities are not a social memory complex, but rather a group of
mind/body/spirit complexes dedicated to service. These entities work
together, but are not completely unified; thus, they do not completely see
each the other’s thoughts, feelings, and motives. However, their desire to
serve is the fourth-dimensional type of desire, thus melding them into
what you may call a brotherhood.
15.19 QUESTIONER Why do you call them the Elder Race?
R A I am Ra. We called them thusly to acquaint you, the questioner, with
their identity as is understood by your mind complex-distortion.
15.20 QUESTIONER Are there any wanderers with these Elder Race, or not?
R A I am Ra. These are planetary entities harvested—wanderers only in
the sense that they chose, in fourth-density love, to immediately
reincarnate in third density rather than proceeding towards fourth
density. This causes them to be wanderers of a type, wanderers who have
never left the earth plane because of their free will rather than because of
their vibrational level.
15.21 QUESTIONER Well, in yesterday’s material you stated, “We offer the Law of
One, the solving of paradoxes.” You also mentioned earlier that the first
paradox, or the first distortion I meant, was the distortion of Free Will.
 5 Spoken previously in 14.16–17 and 15.15.
6 Michel D’Obrenovic, also known as George Hunt Williamson.
134 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Could you tell me if there’s a sequence? Is there a first, second, third,
fourth distortion of the Law of One?
R A I am Ra. Only up to a very short point. After this point, the manyness of distortions are equal one to another. The First Distortion, Free
Will, finds focus. This is the Second Distortion known to you as Logos,
the Creative Principle, or Love. This intelligent energy thus creates a
distortion known as Light.
From these three distortions come many, many hierarchies of distortions,
each having its own paradoxes to be synthesized, no one being more
important than another.
15.22 QUESTIONER You also said that you offered the Law of One, which is the
balancing of love/light and light/love. Is there any difference between
love/light and light/love?
R A I am Ra. This will be the final question of this time/space. There is
the same difference between love/light and light/love as there is between
teach/learning and learn/teaching. Love/light is the enabler, the power,
the energy giver. Light/love is the manifestation which occurs when Light
has been impressed with Love.
15.23 QUESTIONER Is there anything that we can do to make the instrument
more comfortable? And can we have another session today?
R A I am Ra. This instrument requires a certain amount of manipulation
of the physical, or body, complex due to a stiffness. Other than this, all is
well, the energies being balanced. There is a slight distortion in the
mental energy of this instrument due to concern for a loved one, as you
call it. This is only slightly lowering the vital energies of the instrument.
Given a manipulation, this instrument will be well for another working.
15.24 QUESTIONER By manipulation, do you mean she should go for a walk, or
we should rub her back?
R A I am Ra. We meant the latter. The understanding must be added that
this manipulation be done by one in harmony with the entity. Are there
any short queries before we leave this instrument?
15.25 QUESTIONER Is it possible for you to tell us anything about what—since
we are wanderers—anything about our previous density? Which density
we came from?
SESSION 15 135
R A I scan each and find it acceptable to share this information. The
wanderers in this working are of two densities: one the density of five,
that is, of light; one the density of love/light, or unity. To express the
identity of which came from which density we observe to be an
infringement upon the free will of each. Therefore, we state simply the
two densities, both of which are harmoniously oriented towards work
together.
I am Ra. I leave you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator. Go
forth, then, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One Infinite
Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 16
JANUARY 31, 1981
16.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator.
We communicate now.
16.1 QUESTIONER I would like to ask, considering the Free Will Distortion of
the Law of One, how can the Guardians quarantine the earth? Is this
quarantine within the Free Will Distortion?
R A I am Ra. The Guardians guard the free-will distortion of the
mind/body/spirit complexes of third density on this planetary sphere. The
events which require activation of quarantine were interfering with the
free-will distortion of mind/body/spirit complexes.
16.2 QUESTIONER I may be wrong, but it seems to me that it would be the free
will of, say, the Orion group to interfere. How is this balanced against the
other concept you just gave?
R A I am Ra. The balancing is from dimension to dimension. The
attempts of the so-called Crusaders to interfere with free will are
acceptable upon the dimension of their understanding. However, the
mind/body/spirit complexes of this dimension you call third form a
dimension of free will which is not able to, shall we say, recognize in full
the distortions towards manipulation.
Thus, in order to balance the dimensional variances in vibration, a
quarantine was set up; this being a balancing situation whereby the free
will of the Orion group is not stopped but given a challenge. Meanwhile,
the third-density group is not hindered from free choice.
16.3 QUESTIONER Could these windows that occur let the Orion group come
through once in a while? Does this have anything to do with this free-will
distortion?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
16.4 QUESTIONER Could you tell me how that works?
R A I am Ra. The closest analogy would be a random number generator,
within certain limits.
SESSION 16 137
16.5 QUESTIONER What is the source of this random number generator? Is it
created by the Guardians to balance their guarding? Or is it a source other
than the Guardians?
R A I am Ra. All sources are one. However, we understand your query.
The window phenomenon is an other-self phenomenon from the
Guardians. It operates from the dimensions beyond space/time in what
you may call the area of intelligent energy. Like your cycles, such
balancing, such rhythms are as a clock striking. In the case of the
windows, no entities have the clock. Therefore, it seems random. It is not
random in the dimension which produces this balance. That is why we
stated the analogy was within certain limits.
16.6 QUESTIONER Then this window balancing prevents the Guardians from
reducing their positive polarization by totally eliminating the Orion
contact through shielding. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is partially correct. In effect, the balancing allows an
equal amount of positive and negative influx, this balanced by the
mind/body/spirit distortions of the social complex. Thus in your
particular planetary sphere, less negative, as you would call it,
information, or stimulus, is necessary than positive due to the somewhat
negative orientation of your social complex-distortion.
16.7 QUESTIONER In this way, total free will is balanced so that the individual
may have an equal opportunity to choose service to others or service to
self. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
16.8 QUESTIONER This is a profound revelation, I believe, in the Law of Free
Will. Thank you.
This is a minor question further to make an example of this principle, but
if the Confederation landed on Earth, they would be taken as gods,
breaking the Law of Free Will and thus reducing their polarization
towards service to all. I assume that the same thing would happen if the
Orion group landed. How would this affect their polarization towards
service to self if they were able to land and became known as gods?
R A I am Ra. In the event of mass landing of the Orion group, the effect
of polarization would be strongly towards an increase in the service to self, 
138 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
precisely the opposite of the former opportunity which you mentioned.
16.9 QUESTIONER If the Orion group was able to land, would this increase their
polarization? What I am trying to get at is, is it better for them to work
behind the scenes and get recruits, shall we say, from our planet, the
person on our planet going towards service to self strictly on his own
using his free will, or is it just as good for the Orion group to land upon
our planet and demonstrate remarkable powers and get people like that?
R A I am Ra. The first instance is, in the long run, shall we put it, more
salubrious for the Orion group in that it does not infringe upon the Law
of One by landing, and thus does its work through those of this planet.1
In the second circumstance, a mass landing would create a loss of
polarization due to the infringement upon the free will of the planet.
However, it would be a gamble. If the planet then were conquered and
became part of the Empire, the free will would then be re-established.
This is restrained in action due to the desire of the Orion group to
progress towards the One Creator. This desire to progress inhibits the
group from breaking the Law of Confusion.
16.10 Q UESTIONER You mentioned the word “Empire” in relation to the Orion
group. I have thought for some time that the movie Star Wars was
somehow an allegory, in part, for what is actually happening. Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct in the same way that a simple children’s story
is an allegory for physical/philosophical/social complex distortionunderstanding.
16.11 QUESTIONER Is there a harvest of entities oriented towards service to self
like there is a harvest here of entities oriented towards service to others?
R A I am Ra. There is one harvest. Those able to enter fourth density
through vibrational complex levels may choose the manner of their
further seeking of the One Creator.
16.12 QUESTIONER Then as we enter the fourth density there will be a split, shall
we say, and part of the individuals who go into the fourth density will go
 1 In this context, salubrious may be defined as “conducive or favorable to health or
well-being.”
SESSION 16 139
to planets, or places, where there is service to others, and the other part
will go into places where there is service to self. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
16.13 QUESTIONER Well, the Confederation established its quarantine, I
understand, seventy-five thousand years ago. Has the Orion group been
attempting to contact any part of this planet prior to that? Or did
they . . . how long have they been attempting to contact this planet?
R A I am Ra. Approximately four five thousand [45,000] years ago an
attempt was made. It was not successful. Approximately two six oh oh,
two thousand six hundred [2,600], years ago the group sent an entity of
social memory complex to this planetary sphere. This effort met with
some success but was in the space/time continuum lessened in impact.
Since approximately two three oh oh, two thousand three hundred
[2,300], years ago, in your measurement, this group has constantly been
working upon the harvest just as the Confederation.2
16.14 QUESTIONER Can you name the entity that they sent here twenty-six
hundred years ago . . . two thousand six hundred years ago?3
R A I am Ra. This entity named by your peoples, Yahweh.
16.15 QUESTIONER Can you tell me the origin of the Ten Commandments?
R A I am Ra. The origin of these commandments follows the law of
negative entities impressing information upon positively oriented
mind/body/spirit complexes. The information attempted to copy, or ape,
positivity while retaining negative characteristics.
16.16 QUESTIONER Was this done by the Orion group?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
16.17 QUESTIONER What was their purpose in doing this?
R A I am Ra. The purpose of the Orion group, as mentioned before, is
conquest and enslavement. This is done by finding and establishing an
 2 Ra corrected the last two dates in session 17. They should be 3,600 and 3,300
years ago, respectively.
3 The correct time frame is 3,600 years. See Ra’s statement opening session 17.
140 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
elite and causing others to serve the elite through various devices, such as
the laws you mention and others given by this entity.
16.18 QUESTIONER Was the recipient of the laws, of the Ten Commandments,
positively or negatively oriented?
R A The recipient was one of extreme positivity, thus accounting for some
of the pseudo-positive characteristics of the information received. As with
contacts which are not successful, this entity, vibratory complex Moishe,
did not remain a credible influence among those who had first heard the
philosophy of One, and this entity was removed from this third-density
vibratory level in a lessened or saddened state, having lost what you may
call the honor and faith with which he had begun the conceptualization
of the Law of One and the freeing of those who were of his tribes, as they
were called at that time/space.
16.19 QUESTIONER If this entity was positively oriented, how was the Orion
group able to contact him?
R A I am Ra. This was an intensive, shall we say, battleground between
positively oriented forces of Confederation origin and negatively oriented
sources. The one called Moishe was open to impression and received the
Law of One in its most simple form. However, the information became
negatively oriented due to his people’s pressure to do specific physical
things in the third-density planes. This left the entity open for the type of
information and philosophy of a self-service nature.
16.20 QUESTIONER It would be unlike an entity fully aware of the knowledge of
the Law of One to ever say, “Thou shalt not.” Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
16.21 QUESTIONER Can you give me some kind of history of your social memory
complex and how you became aware of the Law of One?
R A I am Ra. The path of our learning is graven in the present moment.
There is no history, as we understand your concept. Picture, if you will, a
circle of being. We know the alpha and omega as infinite intelligence.
The circle never ceases. It is present.
The densities we have traversed at various points in the circle correspond
to the characteristics of cycles:
First, the cycle of awareness.
SESSION 16 141
Second, the cycle of growth.
Third, the cycle of self-awareness.
Fourth, the cycle of love or understanding.
Fifth, the cycle of light or wisdom.
Sixth, the cycle of light/love, love/light, or unity.
Seventh, the gateway cycle.
Eighth, the octave which moves into a mystery we do not plumb.
16.22 QUESTIONER Thank you very much. In previous material, before we
communicated with you, it was stated by the Confederation that there is
actually no past or future—all is present. Would this be a good analogy?
R A I am Ra. There is past, present, and future in third density. In an
overview such as an entity may have, removed from the space/time
continuum, it may be seen that in the cycle of completion there exists
only the present. We, ourselves, seek to learn this understanding. At the
seventh level, or dimension, we shall, if our humble efforts are sufficient,
become one with all, thus having no memory, no identity, no past or
future, but existing in the all.
16.23 QUESTIONER Does this mean that you would have awareness of all that is?
R A I am Ra. This is partially correct. It is our understanding that it would
not be our awareness but simply awareness of the Creator. In the Creator
is all that there is. Therefore, this knowledge would be available.
16.24 QUESTIONER I was wondering how many inhabited planets there are in our
galaxy and if they all reach higher density by the Law of One, or if there is
any other way. It doesn’t seem to me that there would be any other way
to reach higher density. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. Please restate your query.
16.25 QUESTIONER How many inhabited planets are there in our galaxy?
R A I am Ra. We are assuming that you intend all dimensions of
consciousness, or densities of awareness, in this question. Approximately
one-fifth of all planetary entities contain awareness of one or more
densities. Some planetary spheres are hospitable only for certain densities. 
142 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Your planetary sphere, for instance, is at this time hospitable to levels, or
densities, one, two, three, and four.
16.26 QUESTIONER Well, roughly how many total planets in this galaxy of stars
that we’re in have aware life regardless of density?
R A I am Ra. Approximately six seven, oh oh oh, oh oh oh [67,000,000].
16.27 QUESTIONER Can you tell me what percentage of those are third, fourth,
fifth, sixth density, etc.? Roughly, very roughly.
R A I am Ra. A percentage seventeen for first density, a percentage twenty
for second density, a percentage twenty-seven for third density, a
percentage sixteen for fourth density, a percentage six for fifth density.
The other information must be withheld. The free will of your future is
not making this available.
We shall speak on one item. There is a fairly large percentage,
approximately thirty-five percent of the intelligent planets, which do not
fit in the percentiles. These mysteries are of sixth and seventh density and
are not available for our speaking.
16.28 QUESTIONER Well, this first five densities—have all of them progressed
from third density by knowledge and application of the Law of One?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
16.29 QUESTIONER Then the only way for a planet to get out of the situation
that we are in—or the only way for the population—is to become aware
of, and start practicing, the Law of One. Is this correct?
R A This is correct.
16.30 QUESTIONER Can you tell me what percentage of third-, fourth-, and fifthdensity planets which you have spoken of here are negatively polarized,
polarized towards service for self?
R A I am Ra. This is not a query to which we may speak given the Law of
Confusion. We may say only that the negatively, or self-service, oriented
planetary spheres are much fewer. To give you exact numbers would not
be appropriate.
16.31 QUESTIONER I would like to make an analogy about why there are fewer
negatively oriented and ask you if the analogy is good.
SESSION 16 143
In a positively oriented society with service to others, it would be simple
to move a large boulder by getting everyone to help move it. In a society
oriented towards service to self, it would be much more difficult to get
everyone to work on the boulder for the good of all; therefore, it is much
easier to get things done to create the service-to-other principle and to
grow in positively oriented communities than it is in negative. Is this
correct? [Inaudible]
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
16.32 QUESTIONER Thank you very much. Can you tell me how the
Confederation of Planets was formed and why?
R A I am Ra. The desire to serve begins—in the dimension of love, or
understanding—to be an overwhelming goal of the social memory
complex. Thus, those percentiles of planetary entities, plus approximately
four percent more of whose identity we cannot speak, found themselves
long, long ago in your time seeking the same thing: service to others.
The relationship between these entities as they entered an understanding
of other beings, other planetary entities, and other concepts of service was
to share and continue together these commonly held goals of service.
Thus, each voluntarily placed the social memory complex data in what
you may consider a central thought complex available to all. This then
created a structure whereby each entity could work in its own service
while calling upon any other understandings needed to enhance the
service. This is the cause of the formation and the manner of the working
of the Confederation.
16.33 QUESTIONER With such a large number of planets in this galaxy, I was
wondering if . . . you say there are approximately five hundred
Confederation planets. That seems to me to be a relatively small
percentage of the total number of fourth- and fifth-density planets
around. Is there any reason for this relatively small percentage in this
Confederation?
R A I am Ra. There are many Confederations. This Confederation works
with the planetary spheres of seven of your galaxies, if you will, and is
responsible for the callings of the densities of these galaxies.
16.34 QUESTIONER Would you define the word galaxy as you just used it?
144 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A We use that term in this sense as you would use star systems.
16.35 QUESTIONER I’m a little bit confused as to how many total planets then,
roughly, does the Confederation that you are in serve?
R A I am Ra. I see the confusion. We have difficulty with your language.
The galaxy term must be split. We call galaxy that vibrational complex
that is local. Thus, your sun is what we would call the center of a galaxy.
We see you have another meaning for this term.
16.36 QUESTIONER Yes. In our science, the term galaxy refers to the lenticular
star system that contains millions and millions of stars, and this had
occurred earlier in our communications, this area of confusion. I’m glad
to get it cleared up.
Now, using the term galaxy in the sense that I just gave you, of the
lenticular star system that contains millions of stars, do you know of the
evolution in other galaxies besides this one?
R A I am Ra. We are aware of life in infinite capacity. You are correct in
this assumption.
16.37 QUESTIONER Can you tell me if the progression of life in the other galaxies
is similar to progression in this one?
R A I am Ra. The progression is somewhat close to the same,
asymptotically approaching congruency throughout infinity.4 The free
choosing of what you call galactic systems causes variations of an
extremely minor nature from one of your galaxies to another.
16.38 QUESTIONER And then the Law of One is truly universal in creating the
progression toward the eighth density, or octave, in all galaxies. Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. There are infinite forms, infinite
understandings, but the progression is one.
16.39 QUESTIONER I am assuming it is not necessary for an individual to
understand the Law of One to go from third to fourth density. Is this
correct?
 4 In this context, asymptotically may be defined as “infinitely approaching a given
value.”
SESSION 16 145
R A I am Ra. It is absolutely necessary that an entity consciously realize it
does not understand in order for it to be harvestable. Understanding is
not of this density.
16.40 QUESTIONER That is a very important point. I used the wrong word. What
I meant to say was I believe that it was not necessary for an entity to be
consciously aware of the Law of One to go from third to fourth density.
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
16.41 QUESTIONER At what point in densities is it necessary for an entity to be
consciously aware of the Law of One to progress?
R A I am Ra. The fifth-density harvest is of those whose vibratory
distortions consciously accept the honor/duty of the Law of One. This
responsibility/honor is the foundation of this vibration.
16.42 QUESTIONER Can you tell me a little more about this honor/responsibility
concept?
R A I am Ra. Each responsibility is an honor; each honor, a responsibility.
16.43 QUESTIONER I want to ask a rather questionable question. I may not put it
in the book. I was wondering if cattle mutilations that we now experience
across the country and elsewhere could be explained by you.
R A I am Ra. The greater part of your so-called mutilations take place
according to the ways of your second-density beings which feed upon
carrion. A portion of these so-called mutilations are those which are of
what you may call multi-dimensional type: a thought-form construct
using various parts in order to have life and being in third density.
16.44 QUESTIONER Where do these thought-forms come from?
R A I am Ra. This is a very ambiguous question. However, we will
attempt to answer. Firstly, they come from the Creator. Secondly, they
come from what you may call lower astral, inner plane thought. Thirdly,
in construct visualization complex they reside in part beneath the crust of
your planet.
16.45 QUESTIONER Are these one form in particular?
R A I am Ra. These entities may take any thought-form associated with an
emotion of fear or terror.
146 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
16.46 QUESTIONER Are these thought-forms able to attack only cattle, or can
they also attack human beings?
R A I am Ra. These thought-forms cannot attack third-density beings.
16.47 Q U ESTIONER Thank you. Can you tell me of the silver flecks that we have
found sometimes on our faces or elsewhere?
R A I am Ra. These of which you speak are a materialization of a
subjectively oriented signpost indicating to one mind/body/spirit
complex, and no other, a meaning of subjective nature.
16.48 QUESTIONER Who creates the silver flecks? Are they real?
R A I am Ra. Picture, if you will, the increasing potential for
learn/teaching. At some point a sign will be given to indicate the
appropriateness or importance of that learn/teaching. The entity itself, in
cooperation with the inner planes, creates whatever signpost is most
understandable or noticeable to it.
16.49 QUESTIONER You’re saying that we ourselves then create these?
R A I am Ra. Entities consciously do not create these. The roots of mind
complex, having touched in understanding, intelligent infinity, create
them.
16.50 QUESTIONER Thank you. Is it possible for you to give a small description
of the conditions in fourth density?
R A I am Ra. We ask you to consider, as we speak, that there are no words
for positively describing fourth density. We can only explain what is not
and approximate what is. Beyond fourth density our ability grows more
limited still until we become without words.
That which fourth density is not: it is not of words, unless chosen. It is
not of heavy chemical vehicles for body complex activities. It is not of
disharmony within self. It is not of disharmony within peoples. It is not
within limits of possibility to cause disharmony in any way.
Approximations of positive statements: it is a plane of a type of bipedal
vehicle which is much denser and more full of life. It is a plane wherein
one is aware of the thoughts of other-selves. It is a plane where one is
aware of the vibrations of other-selves. It is a plane of compassion and
understanding of the sorrows of third density. It is a plane striving 
SESSION 16 147
towards wisdom or light. It is a plane wherein individual differences are
pronounced, although automatically harmonized by group consensus.
16.51 QUESTIONER Could you define the word density as we have been using it
to give us a little greater idea of the concept of this term when used by
you?
R A I am Ra. The term density is a, what you would call, mathematical
one. The closest analogy is that of music, whereby after seven notes on
your western type of scale, if you will, the eighth note begins a new
octave. Within your great octave of existence which we share with you,
there are seven octaves or densities. Within each density there are seven
sub-densities. Within each sub-density, seven sub-sub-densities, and so on
infinitely.
16.52 QUESTIONER I notice that the time we have used has gone slightly over an
hour. I would prefer to continue, but I want to ask at this time as to the
condition of the instrument.
R A I am Ra. This instrument is in balance. It is well to continue if you
desire.
16.53 QUESTIONER All right. Continuing with what we were just talking about,
namely densities: I understand then that each density has seven subdensities, which again have seven sub-densities, which again have seven
sub-densities. This expands at an extremely large rate as things are
increased in powers of seven. Does this mean that in any density level
anything that you can think of is happening? And many things that you
never thought of are happening . . . are there . . . everything is
happening . . . this is confusing . . .
R A I am Ra. From your confusion we select the concept with which you
struggle, that being infinite opportunity. You may consider any
possibility/probability complex as having an existence.
16.54 QUESTIONER Does what we do when we think of possibilities that can
occur—say daydreaming—do these become real in these densities?
R A I am Ra. This depends upon the nature of the daydream. This is a
large subject. Perhaps the simplest thing we can say is if the daydream, as
you call it, is one which attracts to self, this then becomes reality to self. If
it is contemplative general daydream, this may enter the infinity of 
148 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
possibility/probability complexes and occur elsewhere, having no
particular attachment to the energy fields of the creator.
16.55 QUESTIONER To make this a little more clear, if I were to daydream
strongly about building a ship, would this occur in one of these other
densities?
R A I am Ra. This would, would have, or shall occur.
16.56 QUESTIONER And then if, say, an entity daydreams strongly about battling,
let us say, another entity, would this occur?
R A I am Ra. In this case the entity’s fantasy concerns the self and otherself; this binds the thought-form to the possibility/probability complex
connected with the self which is the creator of this thought-form. This
then would increase the possibility/probability of bringing this into thirddensity occurrence.
16.57 QUESTIONER Does the Orion group use this principle to create conditions
brought about to suit their purpose?
R A I am Ra. We will answer more specifically than the question. The
Orion group uses daydreams of hostile or other negative vibratory natures
to feed back, or strengthen, these thought-forms.
16.58 QUESTIONER Do they ever use any, shall I say, gratifications of the physical
body to amplify such daydreams?
R A I am Ra. They are able to do this only when there is a strong ability
on the part of the receiving mind/body/spirit complex towards the
perception of thought-forms. This could be termed an unusual
characteristic but has indeed been a method used by Orion entities.
16.59 QUESTIONER The many wanderers coming to this planet now and in the
recent past—are they subject to Orion thoughts?
R A I am Ra. As we have said before, wanderers become completely the
creature of third density in mind/body complex. There is just as much
chance of such influence to a wanderer entity as to a mind/body/spirit
complex of this planetary sphere. The only difference occurs in the spirit
complex which, if it wishes, has an armor of light, if you will, which
enables it to recognize more clearly that which is not as it would 
SESSION 16 149
appropriately be desired by the mind/body/spirit complex. This is not
more than a bias and cannot be called an understanding.
Furthermore, the wanderer is, in its own mind/body/spirit complex, less
distorted towards the, shall we say, deviousness of third-density
positive/negative confusions. Thus, it often does not recognize, as easily as
a more negative individual, the negative nature of thoughts or beings.
16.60 QUESTIONER Would then the wanderers, as they incarnate here, be highpriority targets, shall we say, of the Orion group?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
16.61 QUEST IONER And if a wanderer were to be successfully infringed upon,
shall I say, by the Orion group, what would happen to this wanderer at
the harvest?
R A I am Ra. If the wanderer entity demonstrated, through action, a
negative orientation towards other-selves it would be, as we have said
before, caught into the planetary vibration and, when harvested, possibly
repeat again the master cycle of third density as a planetary entity. This
shall be the last full question of this session.
Is there a short question we may answer before we close the session?
16.62 QUESTIONER Only just to know if the instrument can be any more
comfortable?
R A I am Ra. This instrument is as comfortable as it is possible for you to
make it given the weakness distortions of its body complex. You are
conscientious.
I am Ra. I leave you in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator.
Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One Creator.
Adonai.
SESSION 17
FEBRUARY 3, 1981
17.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator.
Before we communicate by answer, we shall correct an error which we
have discovered in the transmission of our information to you. We have
difficulty dealing with your time/space. There may again be errors of this
type. Feel free to question us that we may recalculate in your time/space
measurements.
The error we have discovered concerns one of the arrivals of both the
Orion group into your planetary sphere of influence and the
corresponding arrival of emissaries of the Confederation. We gave dates
of two six oh oh [2,600] years for the Orion entry, two three oh oh
[2,300] for Confederation entry. This is incorrect. The recalculation
indicates numbers three six oh oh [3,600] for Orion entry, three three oh
oh [3,300] for Confederation entry.1
We communicate now.
17.1 QUESTIONER Thank you very much. I wish to say again . . . consider it an
honor, great honor, and also a privilege, as my [inaudible]. And I would
like to reiterate that my questions may sometimes go a little off because I
keep going on something that I had already started to work into the
applications of the Law of One to better understand primarily the freewill principle and further distortions that we discover.
I got three questions just now in meditation. I’ll ask them first before we
continue.
First, we are now in the fourth density. Will the effects of the fourth
density increase in the next thirty years? Will we see more changes in our
environment and our effect upon our environment?
R A I am Ra. The fourth density is a vibrational spectrum. Your
time/space continuum has spiraled your planetary sphere and your, what
we would call galaxy, what you call star, into this vibration. This will
 1 Footnotes have been added to 14.18, 14.25, and 16.13–14 indicating the correct
timeframes.
SESSION 17 151
cause the planetary sphere itself to electromagnetically realign its vortices
of reception of the instreaming of cosmic forces expressing themselves as
vibrational webs so that the earth will thus be fourth-density magnetized,
as you might call it.
This is going to occur with some inconvenience, as we have said before,
due to the energies of the thought-forms of your peoples which disturb
the orderly constructs of energy patterns within your earth spirals of
energy, which increases entropy and unusable heat. This will cause your
planetary sphere to have some ruptures in its outer garment while making
itself appropriately magnetized for fourth density. This is the planetary
adjustment.
You will find a sharp increase in the number of people, as you call
mind/body/spirit complexes, whose vibrational potentials include the
potential for fourth-vibrational distortions. Thus there will seem to be,
shall we say, a new breed. These are those incarnating for fourth-density
work.
There will also be a sharp increase in the short run of negatively oriented,
or polarized, mind/body/spirit complexes and social complexes due to the
polarizing conditions of the sharp delineation between fourth-density
characteristics and third-density self-service orientation.
Those who remain in fourth density upon this plane will be of the socalled positive orientation. Many will come from elsewhere, for it would
appear that with all of the best efforts of the Confederation, which
includes those from your peoples’ inner planes, inner civilizations, and
those from other dimensions, the harvest will still be much less than that
which this planetary sphere is capable of comfortably supporting in
service.
17.2 QUESTIONER Is it possible to help an entity to reach fourth-density level in
these last days?
R A I am Ra. It is impossible to help another being directly. It is only
possible to make catalyst available in whatever form, the most important
being the radiation of realization of oneness with the Creator from the
self, less important being information such as we share with you.
We, ourselves, do not feel an urgency for this information to be widely
disseminated. It is enough that we have made it available to three, four, or 
152 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
five. This is extremely ample reward, for if one of these obtains fourthdensity understanding due to this catalyst then we shall have fulfilled the
Law of One in the distortion of service.
We encourage a dispassionate attempt to share information without
concern for numbers or quick growth among others. That you attempt to
make this information available is, in your term, your service. The
attempt, if it reaches one, reaches all.
We cannot offer shortcuts to enlightenment. Enlightenment is of the
moment, is an opening to intelligent infinity. It can only be accomplished
by the self, for the self. Another self cannot teach/learn enlightenment,
but only teach/learn information, inspiration, or a sharing of love, of
mystery, of the unknown that makes the other-self reach out and begin
the seeking process that ends in a moment. But who can know when an
entity will open the gate to the present?
17.3 QUESTIONER In meditation a few nights ago I had the impression of a
question about a crater in Russia. I believe it was in Tunguska. Can you
tell me what caused the crater?
R A I am Ra. The destruction of a fission reactor caused this crater.
17.4 QUESTIONER Whose reactor?
R A I am Ra. This was what you may call a “drone” sent by Confederation
which malfunctioned. It was moved to an area where its destruction
would not cause infringement upon the will of mind/body/spirit
complexes. It was then detonated.
17.5 QUESTIONER What was its purpose in coming here?
R A It was a drone designed to listen to the various signals of your peoples.
You were, at that time, beginning work in a more technical sphere. We
were interested in determining the extent and the rapidity of your
advances. This drone was powered by a simple fission motor, or engine,
as you would call it. It was not that type which you now know, but was
very small. However, it has the same destructive effect upon third-density
molecular structures. Thus as it malfunctioned, we felt it was best to pick
a place for its destruction rather than attempt to retrieve it, for the
possibility/probability modes of this maneuver looked very, very minute.
17.6 QUESTIONER Was its danger both blast and radiation?
SESSION 17 153
R A I am Ra. There is very little radiation, as you know of it, in this
particular type of device. There is radiation which is localized, but the
localization is such that it does not drift with the winds as does the
emission of your somewhat primitive weapons.
17.7 QUESTIONER I believe that an analysis of the trees in that area has shown a
low radiation level. Is this the reason for such a low radiation level in the
trees?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. The amount of radiation is very localized.
However, the energy which is released is powerful enough to cause
difficulties.
17.8 QUESTIONER Then was the Confederation responsible for Earth receiving
nuclear power?
R A I am Ra. It is a point which one cannot judge what is cause. The basic
equation which preceded this work was an equation brought through by a
wanderer dedicated to service to the planet. That this work should have
become foundation for instruments of destruction was not intended and
was not given.
17.9 QUESTIONER Can you tell me who that wanderer was that brought
through the equation?
R A I am Ra. This information seems harmless as this entity is no longer
of your planetary third density. This entity was named, sound vibration
complex, Albert.
17.10 QUESTIONER Thank you. Can you tell me who, before incarnation into
this density, was the one known as Jesus of Nazareth?
R A I am Ra. I have difficulty with this question as it is phrased. Can you
discover another form for this query?
17.11 QUESTIONER Yes. What I meant to say was can you tell me if Jesus of
Nazareth came from the Confederation before incarnation here?
R A I am Ra. The one known to you as Jesus of Nazareth did not have a
name. This entity was a member of fifth2 density of the highest level of
that sub-octave. This entity was desirous of entering this planetary sphere
 2 This should be fourth. Ra corrects the error in the next answer.
154 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
in order to share the love vibration in as pure a manner as possible. Thus,
this entity received permission to perform this mission. This entity was
then a wanderer of no name, of Confederation origins, of fifth density,
representing the fifth-density understanding of the vibration of
understanding or love.
17.12 QUESTIONER Did you say the fifth vibration was that of love? Fifth density
was that of love?
R A I am Ra. I have made an error. The fourth-density being is that which
we intended to say, the highest level of fourth density going into the fifth.
This entity could have gone on to the fifth but chose instead to return to
third for this particular mission. This entity was of the highest sub-octave
of the vibration of love. This is fourth density.
17.13 QUESTIONER When I am communicating with you as Ra, are you at times
an individualized entity, or am I speaking to the entire complex?
R A I am Ra. You speak with Ra. There is no separation. You would call it
a social memory complex thus indicating many-ness. To our
understanding, you are speaking to an individualized portion of
consciousness.
17.14 QUESTIONER Do I always speak to the same individualized portion of
consciousness in each of the sessions?
R A I am Ra. You speak to the same entity through a channel or
instrument. This instrument is at times lower in vital energy. This will
sometimes hamper our proceedings. However, this instrument has a great
deal of faithfulness to the task and gives whatever it has to this task.
Therefore, we may continue even when energy is low. This is why we
usually speak to the ending of the session due to our estimation of the
instrument’s levels of vital energy.
17.15 QUESTIONE R I would like to make a point clear now that I am sure of
myself. People of this planet, following any religion or no religion at all,
or having no intellectual knowledge of the Law of One or of anything at
all, can still be harvested into the fourth density if they are of that
vibration. Is this not correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. However, you will find few who are
harvestable whose radiance does not cause others to be aware of their, 
SESSION 17 155
what you may call, spirituality, the quality of the mind/body/spiritcomplex distortion. Thus, it is not particularly probable that an entity
would be completely unknown to his immediate acquaintances as an
unusually radiant personality, even were this individual not caught up in
any of the distortions of your so-called religious systems.
17.16 QUESTIONER When Jesus of Nazareth incarnated, was there an attempt by
the Orion group to discredit him in some way?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
17.17 QUESTIONER Can you tell me what the Orion group did in order to try to
cause his downfall?
R A I am Ra. We may describe in general what occurred. The technique
was that of building upon other negatively oriented information. This
information had been given by the one whom your peoples called
Yahweh. This information involved many strictures upon behavior and
promised power of the third-density, service-to-self nature. These two
types of distortions were impressed upon those already oriented to think
these thought-forms.
This eventually led to many challenges of the entity known as Jesus. It
eventually led to one, sound vibration complex Judas, as you call this
entity, who believed that it was doing the appropriate thing in bringing
about, or forcing upon the one you call Jesus, the necessity for bringing in
the third-density planetary-power distortion of third-density rule over
others.
This entity, Judas, felt that, if pushed into a corner, the entity you call
Jesus would then be able to see the wisdom of using the power of
intelligent infinity in order to rule others. The one you call Judas was
mistaken in this estimation of the reaction of the entity, Jesus, whose
teach/learning was not oriented towards this distortion. This resulted in
the destruction of the bodily complex of the one known as Jesus to you.
17.18 QUESTIONER Then if the entity Jesus was fourth density, and there are
wanderers on the planet today who came from fifth and sixth density,
what was it that Jesus did that enabled him to be such a good healer, and
could these fifth- and sixth-density beings here today do the same?
R A I am Ra. Those who heal may be of any density which has the 
156 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
consciousness of the spirit. This includes third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and
seventh. The third density can be one in which healing takes place just as
the others. However, there is more illusory material to understand, to
balance, to accept, and to move forward from.
The gate to intelligent infinity can only be opened when an
understanding of the instreamings of intelligent energy are opened unto
the healer. These are the so-called Natural Laws of your local space/time
continuum and its web of electromagnetic sources, or nexi, of instreaming
energy.
Know then, first, the mind and the body. Then as the spirit is integrated
and synthesized, those are harmonized into a mind/body/spirit complex
which can move among the dimensions and which can open the gateway
to intelligent infinity, thus healing self by light and sharing that light with
others.
True healing is simply the radiance of the self causing an environment in
which a catalyst may occur which initiates the recognition of self, by self,
of the self-healing properties of the self.
17.19 QUESTIONER How did Jesus learn this during his incarnation?
R A I am Ra. This entity learned the ability by a natural kind of
remembering at a very young age. Unfortunately, this entity first
discovered his ability to penetrate intelligent infinity by becoming the
distortion you call “angry” at a playmate. This entity was touched by the
entity, known as Jesus to you, and was fatally wounded.
Thus the one known as Jesus became aware that there dwelt in him a
terrible potential. This entity determined to discover how to use this
energy for the good, not for the negative. This entity was extremely
positively polarized and remembered more than most wanderers do.
17.20 QUESTIONER How did this aggressive action against a playmate affect Jesus
in his spiritual growth? Where did he go after his physical death?
R A I am Ra. The entity you call Jesus was galvanized by this experience
and began a lifetime of seeking and searching. This entity studied first day
and night in its own religious constructs, which you call Judaism, and was
learned enough to be a rabbi, as you call the teach/learners of this
particular rhythm or distortion of understanding, at a very young age.
SESSION 17 157
At the age of approximately thirteen and one-half of your years, this
entity left the dwelling place of its earthly family, as you would call it, and
walked into many other places seeking further information. This went on
sporadically until the entity was approximately twenty-five, at which time
it returned to its family dwelling and learned and practiced the art of its
earthly father.
When the entity had become able to integrate or synthesize all
experiences, the entity began to speak to other-selves and teach/learn what
it had felt during the preceding years to be of an worthwhile nature.
The entity was absolved karmically of the destruction of an other-self
when it was in its last portion of lifetime and spoke upon what you would
call a cross saying, “Father, forgive them, for they know not what they
do.” In forgiveness lies the stoppage of the wheel of action, or what you
call karma.
17.21 QUESTIONER Then in which density does the entity known as Jesus now
reside?
R A I am Ra. This information is harmless though unimportant. This
entity studies now the lessons of the wisdom vibration, the fifth density,
also called the light vibration.
17.22 QUESTIONER In our culture there is a great saying that he will return. Can
you tell me if this is planned?
R A I am Ra. I will attempt to sort out this question. It is difficult. This
entity became aware that it was not an entity of itself but operated as a
messenger of the One Creator, whom this entity saw as Love. This entity
was aware that this cycle was in its last portion and spoke to the effect
that those of its consciousness would return at the harvest.
The particular mind/body/spirit complex you call Jesus is, as what you
would call an entity, not to return except as a member of the
Confederation occasionally speaking through a channel. However, there
are others of the identical congruency of consciousness that will welcome
those to the fourth density. This is the meaning of the returning.
17.23 QUESTIONER You spoke of the alleviation of karma being forgiveness.
Are . . . I’m having a hard time phrasing this question. I think I’ll have to
come back to it. I’ll ask this other question.
158 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Can you tell me why the earth will be fourth-density positive instead of
fourth-density negative after the cycle is complete, since it seems that
there is a greater negative population?
R A I am Ra. The earth seems to be negative. That is due to the quiet,
shall we say, horror which is the common distortion which those good, or
positively oriented, entities have towards the occurrences which are of
your space/time present. However, those oriented and harvestable in the
ways of service to others greatly outnumber those whose orientation
towards service to self has become that of harvestable quality.
17.24 QUESTIONER In other words, there will be fewer negative entities being
harvested into fourth density than there will be positive. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. The great majority of your peoples will
repeat third density.
17.25 QUESTIONER How did Taras Bulba, Genghis Khan, and Rasputin get
harvested prior to the harvest?
R A I am Ra. It is the right/privilege/duty of those opening consciously the
gate to intelligent infinity to choose the manner of their leaving of the
density. Those of negative orientation who so achieve this right/duty
most often choose to move forward in their learn/teaching of service to
self.
17.26 QUESTIONER Is this the reason for what we call spontaneous combustion?
R A I am Ra. This is not correct.
17.27 QUESTIONER Can you tell me what causes that phenomenon?
R A I am Ra. Picture, if you will, a forest. One tree is struck by lightning.
It burns. Lightning does not strike elsewhere. Elsewhere does not burn.
There are random occurrences which do not have to do with the entity
but with the window phenomenon of which we spoke.
17.28 QUESTIONER Are these particular entities all uniquely the same, or are they
just random entities?
R A I am Ra. The latter is correct.
17.29 QUESTIONER Am I to understand that the harvest will occur in the year
2011, or will it be spread?
SESSION 17 159
R A I am Ra. This is an approximation. We have stated we have difficulty
with your time/space. This is an appropriate probable/possible time/space
nexus for harvest. Those who are not in incarnation at this time will be
included in the harvest.
17.30 QUESTIONER Well, if an entity wants to learn ways of it, wants to be of
service to others rather than service to self while he is in this third density,
are there best ways of being of service to others, or is any way just as good
as any other way?
R A I am Ra. The best way to be of service to others has been explicitly
covered in previous material.3 We will iterate briefly.
The best way of service to others is the constant attempt to seek to share
the love of the Creator as it is known to the inner self. This involves selfknowledge and the ability to open the self to the other-self without
hesitation. This involves, shall we say, radiating that which is the essence,
or the heart, of the mind/body/spirit complex.
Speaking to the intention of your question, the best way for each seeker
in third density to be of service to others is unique to that
mind/body/spirit complex. This means that the mind/body/spirit
complex must then seek within itself the intelligence of its own
discernment as to the way it may best serve other-selves. This will be
different for each. There is no best. There is no generalization. Nothing is
known.
17.31 QUESTIONER Thank you very much. I don’t wish to take up extra time by
asking questions over again. Some are so important I try to ask some
similar questions in different ways to expand on the answer. Seems to be
[inaudible] what we’re getting at, maybe not.
In the book Oahspe it states that if an individual is more than fifty percent
for others—that is, goes over the 50% service to others and is less than
fifty percent for service to self—then he is harvestable. Is this a correct
statement?
R A I am Ra. This is correct if the harvesting is to be for the positive
fourth-dimensional level.
 3 This has been discussed in various places, most explicitly and poignantly in 15.7.
160 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
17.32 QUESTIONER What must be the entity’s percentage, shall we say, if he is to
be harvested for the negative?
R A I am Ra. The entity who wishes to pursue the path of service to self
must attain a grade of five—that is five percent service to others, ninetyfive percent service to self. It must approach totality. The negative path is
quite difficult to attain harvestability upon and requires great dedication.
17.33 QUESTIONER Why is the negative path so much more difficult a path to
attain harvestability upon than the positive?
R A I am Ra. This is due to a distortion of the Law of One which
indicates that the gateway to intelligent infinity be a gateway at the end of
a strait and narrow path,4 as you may call it. To attain fifty-one percent
dedication to the welfare of other-selves is as difficult as attaining a grade
of five percent dedication to other-selves. The, shall we say, sinkhole of
indifference is between those two.
17.34 QUESTIONER Well, then if an entity is harvested into fourth density with a
grade, let’s say, of fifty-one percent for others, forty-nine percent for self,
what level of the fourth density would he go into? I’m assuming there are
different levels of the fourth density.
R A I am Ra. This is correct. Each enters the sub-density which vibrates in
accordance with the entity’s understanding.
17.35 QUESTIONER How many levels do we have here in the third density at this
time?
R A I am Ra. The third density has an infinite number of levels.
17.36 QUESTIONER I’ve heard that there are seven astral and seven devachanic
primary levels. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. You speak of some of the more large distinctions in levels in
your inner planes. That is correct.
17.37 QUESTIONER Well, who inhabit the astral, and who inhabit the devachanic
planes?
 4 “Strait” is used instead of “straight” because it is a better contextual fit and
because of Ra’s love of archaic and poetic language.
SESSION 17 161
R A I am Ra. Entities inhabit the various planes due to their vibrational
nature. The astral plane varies from thought-forms in the lower
extremities to enlightened beings who become dedicated to teach/learning
in the higher astral planes.
In the devachanic planes, as you call them, are those whose vibrations are
even more close to the primal distortions of love/light.
Beyond these planes there are others.
17.38 QUESTIONER Well, does each . . . does . . . this is difficult. Our physical
plane—are there seven sub-planes to what we call our physical plane here?
R A I am Ra. You are correct. This is difficult to understand.
There are an infinite number of planes. In your particular space/timecontinuum distortion there are seven sub-planes of mind/body/spirit
complexes. You will discover the vibrational nature of these seven planes
as you pass through your experiential distortions, meeting other-selves of
the various levels which correspond to the energy influx centers of the
physical vehicle.
The invisible, or inner, third-density planes are inhabited by those who
are not of body complex natures such as yours; that is, they do not collect
about their spirit/mind complexes a chemical body. Nevertheless, these
entities are divided in what you may call an artificial dream within a
dream into various levels. In the upper levels desire to communicate
knowledge back down to the outer planes of existence becomes less, due
to the intensive learn/teaching which occurs upon these levels.
17.39 QUESTIONER Then is it necessary to penetrate one plane at a time as we
move from what we call third-density physical through these planes?
R A I am Ra. It has been our experience that some penetrate several planes
at one time. Others penetrate them slowly. Some in eagerness attempt to
penetrate the higher planes before penetrating the energies of the so-called
lower, or more fundamental, planes. This causes energy imbalance.
You will find ill health, as you call this distortion, to frequently be the
result of a subtle mismatch of energies in which some of the higher energy
levels are being activated by the conscious attempts of the entity while the
entity has not penetrated the lower energy centers, or sub-densities, of
this density.
162 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
17.40 QUESTIONER Is there a best way to meditate?
R A I am Ra. No.
17.41 QUESTIONER At this time, near the end of the cycle, how are
reincarnations into the physical allocated, shall I say, on this planet? In
our own [inaudible].
R A I am Ra. Entities wishing to obtain critically needed experience in
order to become harvestable are incarnated with priority over those who
will, without too much probable/possible doubt, need to re-experience
this density.
17.42 QUESTIONER How long has this been going on, this type of allocation?
R A I am Ra. This has been going on since the first individual entity
became conscious of its need to learn the lessons of this density. This was
the beginning of what you may call a seniority by vibration.
17.43 QUESTIONER Can you explain what you mean by a seniority by vibration?
R A I am Ra. This will be the final question of this session of working.
The seniority by vibration is the preferential treatment, shall we say,
which follows the ways of the Law of One which encourages harvestable
individuals. Each individual becoming aware of the time of harvest and
the need, on a self-level, to bend mind, body, and spirit towards the
learn/teaching of these lessons, is given priority in order that this entity
may have the best possible chance, shall we say, of succeeding in this
attempt.
May we ask at this time if there are any questions?
17.44 QUESTIONER My only question: is there anything we can do to make the
instrument [inaudible]?
R A I am Ra. This instrument is not wearing the appropriate apparel for
this work. As inpourings occur in the regions of the, what you may call,
seventh chakra, as you speak of these energy centers, filtering through the
sixth and so forth, the entity’s other, or base, chakras become somewhat
de-energized. Thus, this entity should be more careful in its selection of
warm apparel for the part of the body complex you call the feet.
May we answer any other brief questions?
SESSION 17 163
17.45 QUESTIONER Just—we want to put heavier clothing on the feet. Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
I will leave this instrument now. I leave you in the love and the light of
the One Infinite Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 18
FEBRUARY 4, 1981
18.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator.
We communicate now.
18.1 QUESTIONER I was thinking last night that if I were in the place of Ra at
this time, the first distortion of the Law of One might cause me to mix
some erroneous data with the true information that I was transmitting to
this group. Do you do this?
R A I am Ra. We do not intentionally do this. However, there will be
confusion. The errors which have occurred have occurred due to the
occasional variation in the vibrational complex of this instrument due to
its ingestion of a chemical substance. It is not our intent in this particular
project to create erroneous information but to express in the confining
ambiance of your language system the feeling of the infinite mystery of
the One Creation in its infinite and intelligent unity.
18.2 QUESTIONER Can you tell me what the chemical substance is that was
ingested? Causes poor contact?
R A I am Ra. This is not a clear query. Could you please restate?
18.3 QUESTIONER You just stated that you had some problems with the
instrument because of the ingestion, by the instrument, of some chemical
substance. Can you tell me what the substance was?
R A I am Ra. The substance of which we speak is called vibratory sound
complex LSD. It does not give poor contact if it is used in conjunction
with the contact. The difficulty of this particular substance is that there is,
shall we say, a very dramatic drop-off of the effect of this substance. In
each case this instrument began the session with the distortion towards
extreme vital energy which this substance produces.
However, this entity was, during the session, at the point where this
substance no longer was in sufficient strength to amplify the entity’s
abilities to express vital energy. Thus, first the phenomenon of, shall we
say, a spotty contact, and then, as the instrument relies again upon its
own vibrational complexes of vital energy, the vital energy being in this
case very low, it became necessary to abruptly cut off communication in 
SESSION 18 165
order to preserve and nurture the instrument. This particular chemical
substance is both helpful and unhelpful in these contacts for the causes
given.
18.4 QUESTIONER Are there any foods that are helpful or harmful that the
instrument might eat?
R A I am Ra. This instrument has body-complex distortion towards ill
health in the distortion direction corrected best by ingestion of the
foodstuffs of your grains and your vegetables, as you call them. However,
this is extremely unimportant when regarded as an aid with equality to
other aids such as attitude which this instrument has in abundance. It,
however, aids the vital energies of this instrument, with less distortion
towards ill health, to ingest foodstuffs in the above manner with
occasional ingestion of what you call your meats, due to the instrument’s
need to lessen the distortion towards low vital energy.
18.5 QUESTIONER Thank you. I have a question here from Jim that I will read
verbatim:
“Much of the mystic tradition of seeking on Earth holds that belief that
the individual self must be erased or obliterated and the material world
ignored for an entity to reach ‘nirvana,’ as it’s called, or enlightenment.
What is the proper role of the individual self and its worldly activities in
aiding an entity to grow more into the Law of One?”
R A I am Ra. The proper role of the entity is, in this density, to experience
all things desired, to then analyze, understand, and accept these
experiences, distilling from them the love/light within them. Nothing
shall be overcome. That which is not needed falls away.
The orientation develops due to analysis of desire. These desires become
more and more distorted towards conscious application of love/light as
the entity furnishes itself with distilled experience.
We have found it to be inappropriate in the extreme to encourage the
overcoming of any desires, except to suggest the imagination rather than
the carrying out in the physical plane, as you call it, of those desires not
consonant with the Law of One—this preserving the primal distortion of
Free Will.
The reason it is unwise to overcome is that overcoming is an unbalanced 
166 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
action creating difficulties in balancing in the time/space continuum.
Overcoming thus creates the further environment for holding onto that
which apparently has been overcome.
All things are acceptable in the proper time for each entity, and in
experiencing, in understanding, in accepting, in then sharing with otherselves, the appropriate description shall be moving away from distortions
of one kind to distortions of another which may be more consonant with
the Law of One.
It is, shall we say, a shortcut to simply ignore or overcome any desire. It
must instead be understood and accepted. This takes patience and
experience which can be analyzed with care, with compassion for self and
for other-self.
18.6 QUESTIONER Basically, I would say that to infringe on the free will of
another self, or another entity, would be the basic thing never to do under
the Law of One. Can you state any other breaking of the Law of One
than this basic rule?
R A I am Ra. As one proceeds from the primal distortion of Free Will, one
proceeds to the understanding of the focal points of intelligent energy
which have created the intelligences or the ways of a particular
mind/body/spirit complex in its environment, both what you would call
natural and what you would call man-made.
Thus, the distortions to be avoided are those which do not take into
consideration the distortions of the focus of energy of love/light, or shall
we say, the Logos of this particular sphere, or density. These include the
lack of understanding of the needs of the natural environment, the needs
of other-selves’ mind/body/spirit complexes. These are many due to the
various distortions of man-made complexes in which the intelligence and
awareness of entities themselves have chosen a way of using the energies
available.
Thus, what would be an improper distortion with one entity is proper
with another. We can suggest an attempt to become aware of the otherself as self and thus do that action which is needed by other-self,
understanding from the other-self’s intelligence and awareness. In many
cases this does not involve the breaking of the distortion of Free Will into
a distortion, or fragmentation, called infringement. However, it is a
delicate matter to be of service, and compassion, sensitivity, and an ability 
SESSION 18 167
to empathize are helpful in avoiding the distortions of man-made
intelligence and awareness.
The area, or arena, called the societal complex is an arena in which there
are no particular needs for care, for it is the prerogative honor/duty of
those in the particular planetary sphere to act according to its free will for
the attempted aid of the social complex.
Thus, you have two simple directives: awareness of the intelligent energy
expressed in nature; awareness of the intelligent energy expressed in self to
be shared, when it seems appropriate, by the entity with the social
complex. And you have one infinitely subtle and various set of distortions
of which you may be aware; that is, distortions with respect to self and
other-selves not concerning free will but concerning harmonious
relationships and service to others as other-selves would most benefit.
18.7 QUESTIONER As an entity in this density grows from childhood, he
becomes more aware of his responsibilities. Is there an age below which
an entity is not responsible for his actions, or is he responsible from the
time of birth?
R A I am Ra. An entity incarnating upon the earth plane becomes
conscious of self at a varying point in its time/space progress through the
continuum. This may have a median, shall we say, of approximately
fifteen of your months. Some entities become conscious of self at a period
closer to incarnation, some at a period farther from this event. In all cases
responsibility then becomes retroactive from that point backwards in the
continuum so that distortions are to be understood by the entity and
dissolved as the entity learns.
18.8 QUESTIONER Then an entity, say, four years old would be totally
responsible for any actions that were against or inharmonious with the
Law of One. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. It may be noted that it has been arranged by
your social complex structures that the newer entities to incarnation are to
be provided with guides of a physical mind/body/spirit complex, thus
being able to learn quickly what is consonant with the Law of One.
18.9 QUESTIONER Who are these guides?
R A I am Ra. These guides are what you call parents, teachers, and friends.
168 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
18.10 QUESTIONER I see. The entity Aleister Crowley wrote, “Do what thou wilt
is the whole of the law.” He was obviously in understanding, to some
extent, of the Law of One. Where is this entity now?
R A I am Ra. This entity is within your inner planes. This entity is in an
healing process.
18.11 QUESTIONER Did this entity, then, even though he intellectually
understood the Law of One, misuse it and therefore have to go through
this healing process?
R A I am Ra. This entity became, may we use the vibration sound
complex, overstimulated with the true nature of things. This
overstimulation resulted in behavior that was beyond the conscious
control of the entity. The entity thus—in many attempts to go through
the process of balancing, as we have described the various energy centers
beginning with the red ray and moving upwards—became somewhat
overly impressed, or caught up, in this process and became alienated from
other-selves.
This entity was positive. However, its journey was difficult due to the
inability to use, synthesize, and harmonize the understandings of the
desires of self so that it might have shared, in full compassion, with otherselves. This entity thus became very unhealthy, as you may call it, in a
spiritual complex manner, and it is necessary for those with this type of
distortion towards inner pain to be nurtured in the inner planes until
such an entity is capable of viewing the experiences again with the lack of
distortion towards pain.
18.12 QUESTIONER You stated yesterday that forgiveness is the eradicator of
karma. I am assuming that balanced forgiveness for the full eradication of
karma would require forgiveness not only of other-selves, but forgiveness
of self. Am I correct?
R A I am Ra. You are correct. We will briefly expand upon this
understanding in order to clarify.
Forgiveness of other-self is forgiveness of self. An understanding of this
insists upon full forgiveness upon the conscious level of self and otherself, for they are one. A full forgiveness is thus impossible without the
inclusion of self.
18.13 QUESTIONER Thank you. A most important point to my way of thinking.
SESSION 18 169
You mentioned that there were a number of Confederations. Do all serve
the Infinite Creator in basically the same way, or do some specialize in
some particular types of service?
R A I am Ra. All serve the One Creator. There is nothing else to serve, for
the Creator is all that there is. It is impossible not to serve the Creator.
There are simply various distortions of this service.
As in the Confederation which works with your peoples, each
Confederation is a group of specialized individual social memory
complexes, each doing that which it expresses to bring into manifestation.
18.14 QUESTIONER Can you tell me how Yahweh communicated to Earth’s
people?
R A I am Ra. This is a somewhat complex question.
The first communication was what you would call genetic. The second
communication was the walking among your peoples to produce further
genetic changes in consciousness. The third was a series of dialogues with
chosen channels.
18.15 QUESTIONE R Can you tell me what these genetic changes were and how
they were brought about?
R A I am Ra. Some of these genetic changes were in a form similar to what
you call the cloning process. Thus, entities incarnated in the image of the
Yahweh entities. The second was a contact of the nature you know as
sexual, changing the mind/body/spirit complex through the natural
means of the patterns of reproduction devised by the intelligent energy of
your physical complex.
18.16 QUESTIONER Can you tell me specifically what they did in this case?
R A I am Ra. We have answered this question. Please restate for further
information.
18.17 QUESTIONER Can you tell me the difference between the . . . the sexual
programming, let us say, prior to Yahweh’s intervention and after
intervention?
R A I am Ra. This is a question which we can only answer by stating that
intervention by genetic means is the same no matter what the source of
this change.
170 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
18.18 QUESTIONER Can you tell me Yahweh’s purpose in making the genetic
sexual changes?
RA I am Ra. The purpose, seven five oh oh oh [75,000] years ago, as you
measure time, [of] the changes subsequent to that time were of one
purpose only: that to express in the mind/body complex those
characteristics which would lead to further and more speedy development
of the spiritual complex.
18.19 QUESTIONER How did these characteristics go about leading to the more
spiritual development?
R A I am Ra. The characteristics which were encouraged included
sensitivity of all the physical senses to sharpen the experiences and the
strengthening of the mind complex in order to promote the ability to
analyze these experiences.
18.20 QUESTIONER When did Yahweh act to perform the genetic changes that
Yahweh performed?
R A I am Ra. The Yahweh group worked with those of the planet you call
Mars seven five, seventy-five thousand [75,000] years ago in what you
would call the cloning process. There are differences, but they lie in the
future of your time/space continuum, and we cannot break the free will
Law of Confusion.
The two six oh oh [2,600], approximately, time was the second time—we
correct ourselves—three six oh oh [3,600], approximately the time of
attempts by those of the Orion group during this cultural complex. This
was a series of encounters in which the ones called Anak were
impregnated with the new genetic coding by your physical complex
means so that the organisms would be larger and stronger.
18.21 QUESTIONER Why did they want larger and stronger organisms?
R A The ones of Yahweh were attempting to create an understanding of
the Law of One by creating mind/body complexes capable of grasping the
Law of One. The experiment was a decided failure from the view of the
desired distortions due to the fact that rather than assimilating the Law of
One, it was a great temptation to consider the so-called social complex, or
sub-complex, as elite or different, and better, than other-selves, this one of
the techniques of service to self.
SESSION 18 171
18.22 QUESTIONER Then the Orion group . . . I’m not quite sure that I
understand this. Do you mean that the Orion group produced this larger
body complex to create an elite so that the Law of One could be applied
in what we call the negative sense?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. The entities of Yahweh were responsible
for this procedure in isolated cases as experiments in combating the Orion
group.
However, the Orion group were able to use this distortion of mind/body
complex to inculcate the thoughts of the elite rather than concentrations
upon the learning/teaching of oneness.
18.23 QUEST IONER Well, was Yahweh then of the Confederation?
R A I am Ra. Yahweh was of the Confederation but was mistaken in its
attempts to aid.
18.24 QUESTIONER Then Yahweh’s communications did not help or did not
create what Yahweh wished for them to create. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. The results of this interaction were quite mixed. Where the
entities were of a vibrational sum characteristic which embraced oneness,
the manipulations of Yahweh were very useful. Wherein the entities of
free will had chosen a less positively oriented configuration of sum total
vibratory complex, those of the Orion group were able, for the first time,
to make serious inroads upon the consciousness of the planetary complex.
18.25 QUESTIONER Can you tell me specifically what allowed the most serious of
these inroads to be made by the Orion group?
R A I am Ra. This will be the final full question.
Specifically, those who are strong, intelligent, etc., have a temptation to
feel different from those who are less intelligent and less strong. This is a
distorted perception of oneness with other-selves. It allowed the Orion
group to form the concept of the holy war, as you may call it. This is a
seriously distorted perception. There were many of these wars of a
destructive nature.
18.26 QUESTIO NER Thank you very much. I believe that to be a very important
point in understanding the total workings of the Law of One. It’ll be
helpful. As you probably know, I must work for the next three days, so 
172 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
we will possibly have another session tonight if you think it is possible.
And the next session after that would not be until four days from now.
Do you believe another session tonight is possible?
R A I am Ra. This instrument is somewhat weak. This is a distortion
caused by lack of vital energy. Thus, nurturing the instrument in physical
balancing will allow another session. Do you understand?
18.27 QUESTIONER Not completely. What specifically shall we do for physical
balancing?
R A I am Ra. One: take care with the foodstuffs. Two: manipulate the
physical complex to alleviate the distortion towards physical complex
pain. Three: encourage a certain amount of what you would call your
exercise. The final injunction: to take special care with the alignments this
second session so that the entity may gain as much aid as possible from
the various symbols. We suggest you check these symbols most carefully.
This entity is slightly misplaced from the proper configuration. Not
important at this time. More important when a second session is to be
scheduled.
I am Ra. I leave you in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator.
Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One
Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 19
FEBRUARY 8, 1981
19.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator.
We communicate now.
19.1 QUESTIONER I have been thinking over the scope of this book and will
read this that I have thought. We are concerned in this communication
with the evolution of mind, body, and spirit. I would like to fully
investigate through questioning the mechanism of evolution in order to
allow those interested individuals to participate in their own evolution. It
seems to me that a good place to start would be the transition from the
second to third density, then to investigate, in detail, the evolution of
third-density entities of Earth, paying particular attention to the
mechanisms which help or hinder that evolution. This is my intent for
direction of this working session. I hope that this is a correct direction.
What I would like to know first is: do all entities make a transition from
second to third density, or are there some other entities who have never
gone through this transition?
R A I am Ra. Your question presumes the space/time continuum
understandings of the intelligent energy which animates your illusion.
Within the context of this illusion we may say that there are some which
do not transfer from one particular density to another, for the continuum
is finite.
In the understanding which we have of the universe, or creation, as one
infinite being—its heart beating as alive in its own intelligent energy—it
merely is one beat of the heart of this intelligence from creation to
creation. In this context each and every entity of consciousness has/is/will
experienced/experiencing/experience each and every density.
19.2 QUESTIONER Let’s take the point at which an individualized entity of
second density is ready for transition to third. Is this second-density being
what we would call animal?
R A I am Ra. There are three types of second-density entities which
become, shall we say, enspirited. The first is the animal. This is the most
predominant. The second is the vegetable, most especially that which you
call sound vibration complex “tree.” These entities are capable of giving 
174 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
and receiving enough love to become individualized. The third category is
mineral. Occasionally a certain location—place, as you may call it—
becomes energized to individuality through the love it receives and gives
in relationship to a third-density entity which is in relationship to it. This
is the least common transition.
19.3 QUESTIONER When this transition from second to third density takes
place, how does the entity, whether it be animal, tree, or mineral, become
enspirited?
R A I am Ra. Entities do not become enspirited. They become aware of
the intelligent energy within each portion, cell, or atom, as you may call
it, of its beingness.
This awareness is that which is awareness of that already given. From the
infinite come all densities. The self-awareness comes from within—given
the catalyst of certain experiences—understanding, as we may call this
particular energy, the upward spiraling of the cell, or atom, or
consciousness.
You may then see that there is an inevitable pull towards the, what you
may call, eventual realization of self.
19.4 QUESTIONER Then after the transition into the third density, am I correct
in assuming that these entities would then be in— We’ll take Earth as an
example. Would the entities, then, look like us? They would be in human
form? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct, taking your planetary sphere as an example.
19.5 QUESTIONER When the first second-density entities became third on this
planet, was this with the help of the transfer of beings from Mars, or were
there second-density entities that evolved into third density with no
outside influence?
R A I am Ra. There were some second-density entities which made the
graduation into third density with no outside stimulus but only the
efficient use of experience.
Others of your planetary second density joined the third-density cycle due
to harvesting efforts by the same sort of sending of vibratory aid as those
of the Confederation send you now. This communication was, however, 
SESSION 19 175
telepathic, rather than telepathic/vocal or telepathic/written, due to the
nature of second-density beings.
19.6 QUESTIONER Who sent the aid to the second-density beings?
R A I am Ra. We call ourselves the Confederation of Planets in the Service
of the Infinite Creator. This is a simplification in order to ease the
difficulty of understanding among your people. We hesitate to use the
term, sound vibration, “understanding,” but it is closest to our meaning.
19.7 QUESTIONER Then the Confederation also aided in second density to third
density transition. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. We must qualify correctness of this query. A portion of the
Confederation which is not working with third density but finds its aid
best used in other harvests—that is, the second-density harvest—is
responsible for aid in these harvests.
The Confederation, as we have stated previously in these sessions, is
composed of many of those in other densities, in your own density,
within your planetary sphere, and within the inner, or angelic, realms.
Each of those entities developing a mind/body/spirit complex, and then
developing a social memory complex, and then dedicating this social
memory complex to the singular service to the One Creator, may join the
Confederation.
19.8 QUESTIONER Well, did this second density to third density transition take
place then 75,000 years ago? Approximate?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
19.9 QUESTIONER Where did the second-density beings get physical vehicles of
third-density type to incarnate into?
R A I am Ra. There were among those upon this second-density plane
those forms which, when exposed to third-density vibrations, became the
third-density, as you would call sound vibration, human, entities.
That is, there was loss of the body hair, as you call it; the clothing of the
body to protect it; the changing of the structure of the neck, jaw, and
forehead in order to allow the easier vocalization; and the larger cranial
development characteristic of third-density needs. This was a normal
transfiguration.
176 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
19.10 QUESTIONER Over approximately how long a period of time does . . . was
this transfiguration? It must have been very short.
R A I am Ra. The assumption is correct, in our terms at least—within a
generation and one-half, as you know these things. Those who had been
harvested of this planet were able to use the newly created physical
complex of chemical elements suitable for third-density lessons.
19.11 QUESTIONER Can you tell me how this new bodily complex was suited to
third-density lessons and what those lessons were?
R A I am Ra. There is one necessity for third density. That necessity is
self-awareness, or self-consciousness. In order to be capable of such, this
chemical complex of body must be capable of the abstract thought. Thus,
the fundamental necessity is the combination of rational and intuitive
thinking. This was transitory in the second-density forms, operating
largely upon intuition, which proved through practice to yield results.
The third-density mind was capable of processing information in such a
way as to think abstractly and in what could be termed “useless” ways, in
the sense of survival. This is the primary requisite.
There are other important ingredients: the necessity for a weaker physical
vehicle to encourage the use of the mind, the development of the already
present awareness of the social complex. These also being necessary: the
further development of physical dexterity in the sense of the hand, as you
call this portion of your body complex.
19.12 QUESTIONER This seems to be a carefully planned, or engineered, stage of
development. Can you tell me anything of the origin of this plan for the
development?
R A I am Ra. We go back to previous information.1 Consider and
remember the discussion of the Logos. With the primal distortion of free
will, each galaxy developed its own Logos. This Logos has complete free
will in determining the paths of intelligent energy which promote the
lessons of each of the densities, given the conditions of the planetary
spheres and the sun bodies.
19.13 QUESTIONER I will make a statement with respect to my understanding,
then, and ask if I am correct. There is a, what I would call, a physical
 1 Previous information from 13.7–16 and 18.6.
SESSION 19 177
catalyst operating at all times upon the entities in third density. I assume
this operated approximately the same way in second density. It’s a catalyst
that acts through what we call pain and emotion.
Is the primary reason for the weakening of the physical body and the
elimination of body hair, etc., so that this catalyst would act more
strongly upon the mind and therefore create the evolutionary process?
R A I am Ra. This is not entirely correct, although closely associated with
the distortions of our understanding.
Consider, if you will, the tree for instance. It is self-sufficient. Consider, if
you will, the third-density entity. It is self-sufficient only through
difficulty and deprivation. It is difficult to learn alone, for there is a builtin handicap, at once the great virtue and the great handicap of third
density. That is the rational/intuitive mind.
Thus, the weakening of the physical vehicle, as you call it, was designed
to distort entities towards a predisposition to deal with each other. Thus,
the lessons which approach a knowing of love can be begun.
This catalyst then is shared between peoples as an important part of each
self’s development as well as the experiences of the self in solitude and the
synthesis of all experience through meditation. The quickest way to learn
is to deal with other-selves. This is a much greater catalyst than dealing
with the self. Dealing with the self without other-selves is akin to living
without what you would call mirrors. Thus, the self cannot see the fruits
of its beingness. Thus, each may aid each by reflection. This is also a
primary reason for the weakening of the physical vehicle, as you call the
physical complex.
19.14 QUESTIONER Then we have second-density beings who have, primarily,
motivation towards service to self and possibly a little bit of service to
others with respect to their immediate families, going into third density
and carrying this bias with them but being in a position now where this
bias will slowly be modified to one which is aimed toward a social
complex, and then ultimately toward union with the all. Am I correct?
R A I am Ra. You are correct.
19.15 QUESTIONER Then the newest third-density beings who’ve just made the
transition from second are still strongly biased towards self-service. There 
178 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
must be many other mechanisms to create an awareness of the possibility
of service to others.
I am wondering, first—two things. I’m wondering about the mechanism,
and I am wondering when the split takes place, where the entity is able to
continue on the road towards service to self that will eventually take him
to fourth or fifth density.
I would assume that an entity can continue . . . can start, say, in second
density with service totally to self and continue right on through and just
stay on what we would call the path of service to self and never ever be
pulled over. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. The second-density concept of serving self
includes the serving of those associated with tribe or pack. This is not
seen in second density as separation of self and other-self. All is seen as
self since in some forms of second-density entities, if the tribe or pack
becomes weakened, so does the entity within the tribe or pack.
The new or initial third-density entity has this innocent, shall we say, bias
or distortion towards viewing those in the family, the society, as you
would call, perhaps, country, as self. Thus, though a distortion not
helpful for progress in third density, it is without polarity.
The break becomes apparent when the entity perceives other-selves as
other-selves and consciously determines to manipulate other-selves for the
benefit of the self. This is the beginning of the road of which you speak.
19.16 QUESTIONER Then, through free will, sometime in the third-density
experience, the path splits, and an entity consciously . . . probably does
not consciously choose. Does an entity consciously choose this path at the
initial splitting point?
R A I am Ra. We speak in generalities, which is dangerous for always
inaccurate. However, we realize you look for the overview, so we will
eliminate anomalies and speak of majorities.
The majority of third-density beings is far along the chosen path before
realization of that path is conscious.
19.17 QUESTIONER Can you tell me what bias creates their momentum toward
the chosen path of service to self?
R A I am Ra. We can speak only in metaphor. Some love the light. Some 
SESSION 19 179
love the darkness. It is a matter of the unique and infinitely various
Creator choosing and playing among its experiences as a child upon a
picnic. Some enjoy the picnic and find the sun beautiful, the food
delicious, the games refreshing, and glow with the joy of creation. Some
find the night delicious, their picnic being pain, difficulty, sufferings of
others, and the examination of the perversities of nature. These enjoy a
different picnic.
All these experiences are available. It is free will of each entity which
chooses the form of play, the form of pleasure.
19.18 QUESTIONER I assume that an entity on either path can decide to choose
paths at any time and possibly retrace steps, the path-changing being
more difficult the farther along is gone. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. The further an entity has, what you would
call, polarized, the more easily this entity may change polarity, for the
more power and awareness the entity will have.
Those truly helpless are those who have not consciously chosen but who
repeat patterns without knowledge of the repetition or the meaning of the
pattern.
19.19 QUESTIONER I believe we have a very, very important point here. It then
seems that there is an extreme potential in this polarization the same as
there is in— To make an analogy, using electricity: we have a positive and
negative pole. The more you build the charge on either of these, the
greater the potential difference and the greater the ability to do work, as
we call it, in the physical.
This would seem to me to be the exact analogy that we have in
consciousness here. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is precisely correct.
19.20 QUESTIONER Well, this would seem then that there is a relationship then
between what we perceive as physical phenomena, say the electrical
phenomena, and the phenomena of consciousness, and that they, having
stemmed from the One Creator, are practically identical but have slightly
different actions as we [inaudible]. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. Again we oversimplify to answer your query.
180 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
The physical complex alone is created of many, many energy, or
electromagnetic, fields interacting due to intelligent energy. The mental
configurations, or distortions, of each complex further adding fields of
electromagnetic energy and distorting the physical complex patterns of
energy. The spiritual aspect serving as a further complexity of fields which
is of itself perfect, but which can be realized in many distorted and
unintegrated ways by the mind and body complexes of energy fields.
Thus, instead of one, shall we say, magnet with one polarity, you have in
the body/mind/spirit complex one basic polarity expressed in what you
would call violet-ray energy (the sum of the energy fields), but which is
affected by thoughts of all kinds generated by the mind complex; by
distortions of the body complex; and by the numerous relationships
between the microcosm (which is the entity) and the macrocosm in many
forms—which you may represent by viewing the stars, as you call them,
each with a contributing energy ray which enters the electromagnetic web
of the entity due to its individual distortions.
19.21 QUESTIONER Is this then the root of what we call astrology?
R A I am Ra. This will be the last full question of this session.
The root of astrology, as you speak it, is one way of perceiving the primal
distortions which may be predicted along probability/possibility lines
given the, shall we say, cosmic orientations and configurations at the time
of the entrance into the physical/mental complex of the spirit and at the
time of the physical/mental/spiritual complex into the illusion.
This then has the possibility of suggesting basic areas of distortion. There
is no more than this. The part astrology plays is likened unto that of one
root among many.
19.22 QUESTIONER I just have two little questions here at the end. The
instrument wanted me to ask if there was any other substances, foods,
etc., that she should not eat or drink, or anything she should not do
because she does not wish to have poor contact for any reason.
R A I am Ra. There is no activity which this instrument engages in which
affects its abilities negatively. There is one activity which affects its
abilities positively. This is the sexual activity, as you would call it.
There are substances ingested which do not aid the individual in the
service it has chosen, this being that which you would call the marijuana. 
SESSION 19 181
This is due to the distortion towards chemical lapses within the mind
complex causing lack of synaptic continuity. This is a chemical reaction
of short duration. This instrument, however, has not used this particular
substance at any time while performing this service.
We believe we have covered the use of such chemical agents as LSD, this
being positive to a certain extent due to the energizing, or speeding up, of
the vital forces. However, it is not recommended for this instrument due
to the toll it takes upon the vital energies once the substance wears off,
this being true of any speeding-up chemical.
19.23 QUESTIONER The only other question I have, is there anything that we can
do to make the instrument more comfortable? And, is it . . . wanted to
ask about another session, but I guess it’s too late today. I didn’t realize.
R A I am Ra. This instrument is well aligned. You are being very
conscientious. We request you take more care in being assured that this
instrument is wearing footwear of what you would call sound vibratory
complex “shoes.”
I am Ra. I leave you in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator.
Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One
Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 20
FEBRUARY 9, 1981
20.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator. I
communicate now.
20.1 QUESTIONER I was thinking the best way to do the book is to continue
working on the history of evolution and its mechanism until we
completely make it through the third density and what will occur into the
first part of the fourth density, so that the mechanisms of developing the
mind/body/spirit complex will be brought out. If I get stymied some
place in one of these sessions as to what questions to ask and where—not
to waste time—I may ask some questions that I will use later in the book,
but we’ll try to always continue along these lines.
First question, to go back just a little bit, is what happened to the seconddensity entities who were on this planet who were unharvestable? I
assume there were some that didn’t make the harvest into the third
density. Can you tell me this?
R A I am Ra. The second density is able to repeat, during third density, a
portion of its cycle.
20.2 QUESTIONER Then the second-density entities that did not get harvested at
the beginning of this 75,000-year period—some are still in second density
on this planet. Were any of these who remained in second density
harvested into third density in the past 75,000 years?
R A I am Ra. This has been increasingly true.
20.3 QUESTIONER So more and more second-density entities are making it into
third density. Can you give me an example of a second-density entity
coming into third density, say, in the recent past?
R A I am Ra. Perhaps the most common occurrence of second-density
graduation during third-density cycle is the so-called pet: the animal
which is exposed to the individualizing influences of the bond between
animal and third-density entity. This individuation causes a sharp rise in
the potential of the second-density entity so that, upon the cessation of
physical complex, the mind/body complex does not return unto the
undifferentiated consciousness of that species, if you will.
SESSION 20 183
20.4 QUESTIONER Then can you give me an example of an entity in third
density that was just previously a second-density entity? What type of
entity do they become here?
R A I am Ra. As a second-density entity returns as third-density for the
beginning of this process of learning, the entity is equipped with the
lowest, if you will so call these vibrational distortions, forms of thirddensity consciousness; that is, equipped with self-consciousness.
20.5 QUESTIONER This would be a human in our form, then, who would be
beginning the understandings of third density. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
20.6 QUESTIONER Speaking of the rapid change that occurred in the physical
vehicle, the change from second to third density: this, you said, occurred
in approximately a generation and a half. Body hair was lost and there
were structural changes.
I am aware of the physics of Dewey B. Larson, who states that all is
motion, or vibration. Am I correct in assuming that the basic vibration,
which makes up the physical world as we experience it, changes, thus
creating a different set of parameters, shall I say, in this short period of
time between density changes, allowing for the new type of vehicle? Am I
correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
20.7 QUESTIONER Just as a sideline, a side question here: Is the physics of
Dewey Larson correct?
R A I am Ra. The physics of sound vibrational complex, Dewey, is a
correct system as far as it is able to go. There are those things which are
not included in this system. However, those coming after this particular
entity, using the basic concepts of vibration and the study of vibrational
distortions, will begin to understand that which you know of as gravity
and those things you consider as “n” dimensions. These things are
necessary to be included in a more universal, shall we say, physical theory.
20.8 QUESTIONER Was this entity, Dewey, then . . . did he bring this material
through in his incarnation for use primarily in fourth density?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
184 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
20.9 QUESTIONER Thank you. Yesterday we were speaking of the split that takes
place in third density when an entity, either consciously or because of
bias, chooses the path of service to others or service to self. The
philosophical question of why such a split even exists came up. It is my
impression that as it is in electricity, if we have no polarity in electricity,
we have no electricity; we have no action; we have no— Therefore, I am
assuming that in consciousness, without such polarity, there would be no
action or experience. Is this correct?
R A This is correct. You may use the general term “work.”
20.10 QUESTIONER Then the concept of service to self or service to others is
mandatory if we wish to have work, whether it be work in consciousness
or work in the mechanical, or Newtonian concept in the physical. Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct with one addendum. The coil, as you may
understand this term, is wound, is potential, is ready. The thing that is
missing without polarizing is the charge.
20.11 QUESTIONER Then the charge is provided by individualized consciousness.
Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. The charge is provided by the individualized entity using the
inpourings and instreamings of energy by the choices of free will.
20.12 QUESTIONER Thank you. As soon as the third density started 75,000 years
ago and we have incarnate third-density entities, what was the average
human life span at that time?
R A I am Ra. At the beginning of this particular portion of your
space/time continuum the average lifetime was approximately nine
hundred of your years.
20.13 QUESTIONER Did the average life span grow longer or shorter as we
progress on into third-density experience?
R A I am Ra. There is a particular use for this span of life in this density,
and given the harmonious development of the learning/teachings of this
density, the life span of the physical complex would remain the same
throughout the cycle. However, your particular planetary sphere
developed vibrations by the second major cycle which shortened the life
span dramatically.
SESSION 20 185
20.14 QUESTIONER Assuming a major cycle is 25,000 years, at the end of the first
25,000-year cycle, how long was the life span?
R A The life span at the end of the first cycle which you call major was
approximately seven hundred of your years.
20.15 QUESTIONER Then in 25,000 years we lost two hundred years of life span.
Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
20.16 QUESTIONER Can you tell me the reason for this shortening of life span?
R A I am Ra. The causes of this shortening are always an ineuphonious, or
inharmonious, relational vibration between other-selves. In the first cycle
this was not severe due to the dispersion of peoples, [but there was] the
growing feeling-complex distortions towards separateness from otherselves.1
20.17 QUESTIONER I’m assuming at the start of one of these cycles there could
have been either a positive polarization that would generally occur over
the 25,000 years or a negative polarization. Is the reason for the negative
polarization and the shortening of the cycle the influx of entities from
Mars who had already polarized somewhat negatively?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. There was not a strong negative
polarization due to this influx. The lessening of the life span was due
primarily to the lack of the building up of positive orientation. When
there is no progress, those conditions which grant progress are gradually
lost. This is one of the difficulties of remaining unpolarized. The chances,
shall we say, of progress become steadily less.
20.18 QUESTIONER The way I understand it, at the beginning of this 75,000-year
cycle, then, we have a mixture of entities—those who have graduated
from second density on Earth to become third-density and then a group
of entities transferred from the planet Mars to incarnate into third density
here. Is this correct?
 1 This sentence has been edited in an attempt to clarify what we believe to be Ra’s
intended meaning. The original sentence reads: “In the first cycle this was not
severe, but due to the dispersion of peoples and the growing feeling-complex
distortions towards separateness from other-selves.”
186 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
20.19 QUESTIONER What— Continue.
R A You must remember that those transferred to this sphere were in the
middle of their third density, so that this third density was an adaptation
rather than a beginning.
20.20 QUESTIONER Thank you. What percentage of the entities, roughly,
were . . . who were in third density here at that time were Martian, and
what percentage were harvested out of Earth’s second density?
R A I am Ra. There were perhaps one-half of the third-density population
being entities from the Red Planet, Mars, as you call it; perhaps onequarter from second density of your planetary sphere; approximately onequarter from other sources, other planetary spheres whose entities chose
this planetary sphere for third-density work.
20.21 QUESTIONER When they incarnated here did they mix? Did all three of
these types mix together in societies or groups, or were they separated by
group or society?
R A I am Ra. They remained largely unmixed.
20.22 QUESTIONER Then did this unmixing lend to a possibility of separation of
group, then, or the possibility of warlike attitude between groups?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
20.23 QUESTIONER Did this then help to reduce the life span?
R A I am Ra. This did reduce the life span, as you call it.
20.24 QUESTIONER Can you tell me why nine hundred years is the optimum life
span?
R A I am Ra. The mind/body/spirit complex of third density has perhaps
one hundred times as intensive a program of catalytic action from which
to distill distortions and learn/teachings than any other of the densities.
Thus the learn/teachings are most confusing to the mind/body/spirit
complex which is, shall we say, inundated by the ocean of experience.
During the first, shall we say, perhaps 150 to 200 of your years, as you
measure time, a mind/body/spirit complex is going through the process of
a spiritual childhood, the mind and the body not enough in a disciplined 
SESSION 20 187
configuration to lend clarity to the spiritual influxes. Thus, the remaining
time span is given to optimize the understandings which result from
experience itself.
20.25 QUESTIONER Then at present it would seem that our life span is much too
short for those who are new to third-density lessons. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. Those entities which have, in some way,
learned/taught themselves the appropriate distortions for rapid growth
can now work within the confines of the shorter life span. However, the
greater preponderance of your entities find themselves in what may be
considered a perpetual childhood.
20.26 QUESTIONER Thank you. Now, back in the first 25,000-year period, or
major cycle, what type of aid was given by the Confederation to the
entities who were in this 25,000-year period so that they could have the
opportunity to grow?
R A I am Ra. The Confederation members which dwell in inner-plane
existence within the planetary complex of vibratory densities worked with
these entities. There was also the aid of one of the Confederation which
worked with those of Mars in making the transition.
For the most part the participation was limited, as it was appropriate to
allow the full travel of the workings of the confusion mechanism to
operate in order for the planetary entities to develop that which they
wished in, shall we say, freedom within their own thinking.
It is often the case that a third-density planetary cycle will take place in
such a way that there need be no outside, shall we say, or other-self aid in
the form of information. Rather, the entities themselves are able to work
themselves towards the appropriate polarizations and goals of thirddensity learn/teachings.
20.27 QUESTIONER I will make this assumption, then: if maximum efficiency had
been achieved in this 25,000-year period the entities would have polarized
either toward service toward self or service to others, one or the other.
This would have then made them harvestable at the end of that 25,000-
year period to either service-to-self or service-to-others type of fourth
density, in which case they would have had to move to another planet
because this one would have been in third density for fifty more thousand
years. Is this correct?
188 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. Let us untangle your assumption which is complex and
correct in part.
The original desire is that entities seek and become one. If entities can do
this in a moment, they may go forward in a moment; and thus were this
to occur in a major cycle, indeed the third-density planet would be
vacated at the end of that cycle.
It is, however, more toward the median, or mean, shall we say, of thirddensity developments throughout the one infinite universe that there be a
small harvest after the first cycle; the remainder having significantly
polarized, the second cycle having a much larger harvest; the remainder
being even more significantly polarized, the third cycle culminating the
process and the harvest being completed.
20.28 QUESTIONER Very good. Then was the Confederation, shall we say,
watching to see, and expecting to see, a harvest at the end of the 25,000-
year period in which a percentage would be harvestable fourth-density
positive and a percentage harvestable fourth-density negative?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. You may see our role in the first major cycle
as that of the gardener who, knowing the season, is content to wait for the
spring. When the springtime does not occur, the seeds do not sprout;
then it is that the gardener must work in the garden.
20.29 QUESTIONER Am I to understand, then, there was neither harvestable
entities of positive or negative polarity at the end of that 25,000 years?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. Those whom you call the Orion group made
one attempt to offer information to those of third density during that
cycle. However, the information did not fall upon the ears of any who
were concerned to follow this path to polarity.
20.30 QUESTIONER What technique did the Orion group use to give this
information?
R A I am Ra. The technique used was of two kinds:
One, the thought transfer, or what you may call telepathy.
Two, the arrangement of certain stones in order to suggest strong
influences of power, this being those of statues and of rock formations in
your Pacific areas, as you now call them, and to an extent in your Central
American regions, as you now understand them.
SESSION 20 189
20.31 QUESTIONER Are you speaking in part of the stone heads of Easter Island?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
20.32 QUESTIONER How would such stone heads influence a people to take the
path of service to self?
R A I am Ra. Picture, if you will, the entities living in such a way that
their mind/body/spirit complexes are at what seems to be the mercy of
forces which they cannot control. Given a charged entity, such as a statue
or a rock formation charged with nothing but power, it is possible for the
free will of those viewing this particular structure or formation to ascribe
to this power, power over those things which cannot be controlled. This,
then, has the potential for the further distortion to power over otherselves.
20.33 QUESTIONER How were these stone heads constructed?
R A I am Ra. These were constructed by thought after a scanning of the
deep mind, the trunk of mind tree, looking at the images most likely to
cause the experience of awe in the viewer.
20.34 QUESTIONER Well, then, did Orion entities do this themselves? Did they
land in physical, or did they do it from mental planes, or did they use one
of the incarnate entities to construct these by thought?
R A I am Ra. Nearly all of these structures and formations were
constructed at a distance by thought. A very few were created in later
times in imitation of original constructs by entities upon your Earth
plane/density.
20.35 QUESTIONER What density Orion entity did the creation of these heads?
R A I am Ra. The fourth density, the density of love, or understanding,
was the density of the particular entity which offered this possibility to
those of your first major cycle.
20.36 QUESTIONER You use the same nomenclature for fourth-density negative
as for fourth-density positive. Both are called the dimension of love or
understanding. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. Love and understanding, whether it be of self
or of self towards other-self, is one.
190 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
20.37 QUESTIONER Now, what was the approximate date in years past of the
construction of these heads?
R A I am Ra. This approximately was six zero, sixty thousand [60,000], of
your years in the past time/space of your continuum.
20.38 QUESTIONER What structures were built in South America?
R A I am Ra. In this location were fashioned some characteristic statues,
some formations of what you call rock and some formations involving
rock and earth.
20.39 QUESTIONER Were the lines at Nazca included in this?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
20.40 QUESTIONER Since this can only be seen from an altitude, of what benefit
was this?
R A I am Ra. The formations were of benefit because charged with energy
of power.
20.41 QUESTIONER I’m a little confused. These lines at Nazca are hardly
understandable for an entity walking on the surface. He cannot see
anything but a disruption of the surface. However, if you go up to a high
altitude you can see the patterns. How was it of benefit to the entities
walking on the surface?
R A I am Ra. At the remove of the amount of time/space which is now
your present it is difficult to perceive that at the time/space sixty thousand
[60,000] years ago the earth was formed in such a way as to be visibly
arranged in powerful structural designs, from the vantage point of distant
hills.
20.42 QUESTIONER In other words at that time there were hills overlooking these
lines?
R A I am Ra. This will be the final full question of this session.
The entire smoothness, as you see this area now, was built up in many
places in hills. The time/space continuum has proceeded with wind and
weather, as you would say, to erode to a great extent both the somewhat
formidable structures of earth designed at that time and the nature of the
surrounding countryside.
SESSION 20 191
20.43 QUESTIONER I think I understand then. Then these lines are just the faint
traces of what used to be there?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
20.44 QUESTIONER Thank you. We need to know whether or not it is possible to
continue with another session later today, and if there is anything we can
do to make the instrument more comfortable?
R A I am Ra. It is possible. We ask that you observe carefully the
alignment of the instrument. Otherwise, you are conscientious.
Is there any short query before we close?
20.45 QUESTIONER I intend in the next session to focus on the development of
the positively oriented entities in the first 25,000 years. I know that you
can’t make suggestions. But this seems to me to be the— I hope that I am
going in the right path in investigating the entire development and
influences in the history of our third density. Can you give me any
comment on this at all?
R A I am Ra. The choices are yours according to your discernment.
I am Ra. I leave you in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator.
Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One
Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 21
FEBRUARY 10, 1981
21.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator.
We communicate now.
21.1 QUESTIONER I have a couple of questions I don’t want to forget to ask in
this period. I’ll ask them first.
The first question is: Would the future content of this book be affected in
any way if the instrument reads the material we have already obtained?
R A I am Ra. The future, as you measure in time/space, communications
which we offer through this instrument have no connection with the
instrument’s mind complex. This is due to two things:
First, the fidelity of the instrument in dedicating its will to the service of
the Infinite Creator.
Secondly, the distortion/understanding of our social memory complex
that the most efficient way to communicate material with as little
distortion as possible, given the necessity of the use of sound vibration
complexes, is to remove the conscious mind complex from the
spirit/mind/body complex so that we may communicate without
reference to any instrument orientation.
21.2 QUESTIONER A little appendage to this: Do you use your vocabulary or the
instrument’s vocabulary to communicate with us?
R A I am Ra. We use the vocabulary of the language with which you are
familiar. This is not the instrument’s vocabulary. However, this particular
mind/body/spirit complex retains the use of a sufficiently large number of
sound vibration complexes that the distinction is often without any
importance.
21.3 QUESTIONER Andrija Puharich will be visiting later this month. Can he
read the unpublished healing material?
R A I am Ra. The entity of whom you speak has a knowledge of this
material in its conscious memory in somewhat altered form. Therefore, it
is harmless to allow this entity to become acquainted with this material.
However, we request the mind/body/spirit complex, Henry, be 
SESSION 21 193
sufficiently prepared by means of meditation, contemplation, or prayer
before entering these workings. At present, as we have said before, this
mind/body/spirit complex is not of proper vibrational distortion.
21.4 QUESTIONER I had already determined to exclude him from these
workings. I have only determined to let him read the material. The only
other thing is that I have noticed that within the material as it exists now,
there is a certain statement which will allow him to understand who I
believe Spectra really was. It seems my duty to remove this from his
knowledge to preserve the same free will that you attempted to preserve
by not defining the origin of Spectra, his contact in Israel. Am I correct?
R A I am Ra. This is a matter for your discretion.
21.5 QUESTIONER That’s what I thought you’d say.
Well, now we’ll get back to the business at hand—of doing the book. I
want, as we cover this early part of the 75,000-year cycle, I would . . . I
would like to go back a little bit, quite some distance perhaps, before the
75,000 years occurred, and take one more look at the transfer of entities
from Maldek to clear up this point. I’d like to check the time that you
gave us, because we had some distortions in numbers back in the early
part of this, and I’m afraid this might be distorted. These entities from
Maldek were transferred how many years ago?
R A I am Ra. The entities of which you speak underwent several
transitions, the first occurring five zero zero thousand [500,000] of your
years, approximately, in your past, as you measure time. At this time, the
entities were transformed into a knot. This continued for what you would
call eons of your time. Those aiding them were repeatedly unable to reach
them.
At a period approximately two zero zero thousand [200,000] years in
your past, as you measure time, a Confederation entity was able to begin
to relax this knot from which none had escaped during planetary
annihilation. These entities then were transformed again into the inner,
or time/space, dimensions and underwent a lengthy process of healing.
When this was accomplished, these entities were then able to determine
the appropriate movement, shall we say, in order to set up conditions for
alleviation of the consequences of their actions. 
194 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
At a time four six zero zero zero, forty-six thousand [46,000] of your years
in your past, as you measure time, this being approximate, these entities
chose incarnation within the planetary sphere.1
21.6 QUESTIONER I see. Then no incarnation occurred before this master
75,000-year cycle of Maldek entities. Correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct in the sense of incarnation in third-density
time/space.2
21.7 QUESTIONER Were there any of these entities then incarnated in second
density before the 75,000-year cycle?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. These particular entities were incarnate in
time/space third density, that is, the so-called inner planes, undergoing
the process of healing and approaching realization of their action.
21.8 QUESTIONER I don’t mean to be covering ground that we’ve already
covered, but there’re some points that we have trouble with fully
understanding, and sometimes I have to ask the question a different way
to fully understand it. Thank you.
So at the start of this 75,000-year cycle we know that the quarantine was
set up. I am assuming then that the Guardians were aware of the
infringements on free will that would occur if they didn’t set this up at
that time and therefore did it. This— Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is partially incorrect. The incorrectness is as follows:
those entities whose third-density experience upon your Red Planet was
brought to a close prematurely were aided genetically while being
transferred to this third density. This, although done in a desire to aid,
was seen as infringement upon free will. The light quarantine, which
consists of the Guardians, or gardeners, as you may call them, which
would have been in effect thus was intensified.
21.9 QUESTIONER Now, when the 75,000-year cycle started, the life span was
approximately nine hundred years, average. What was the process and
scheduling of . . . mechanism, shall I say, of reincarnation at that time,
 1 The dates given in this answer seem to conflict with those given in 10.1.
2 Ra possibly intended to say space/time here.
SESSION 21 195
and how did the time in between incarnations into third-density physical
apply to the growth of the mind/body/spirit complex?
R A I am Ra. This query is more complex than most. We shall begin. The
incarnation pattern of the beginning third-density mind/body/spirit
complex begins in darkness, for you may think, or consider, of your
density as one of, as you may say, a sleep and a forgetting. This is the only
plane of forgetting. It is necessary for the third-density entity to forget so
that the mechanisms of confusion, or free will, may operate upon the
newly individuated consciousness complex.
Thus, the beginning entity is one in all innocence oriented towards
animalistic behavior using other-selves only as extensions of self for the
preservation of the all-self. The entity becomes slowly aware that it has
needs, shall we say, that are not animalistic; that is, that are useless for
survival. These needs include: the need for companionship, the need for
laughter, the need for beauty, the need to know the universe about it.
These are the beginning needs.
As the incarnations begin to accumulate, further needs are discovered: the
need to trade, the need to love, the need to be loved, the need to elevate
animalistic behaviors to a more universal perspective.
During the first portion of third-density cycles, incarnations are
automatic and occur rapidly upon the cessation of energy complex of the
physical vehicle. There is small need to review or to heal the experiences
of the incarnation. As, what you would call, the energy centers begin to
be activated to a higher extent, more of the content of experience during
incarnation deals with the lessons of love.
Thus the time, as you may understand it, between incarnations is
lengthened to give appropriate attention to the review and the healing of
experiences of the previous incarnation. At some point in third density,
the green-ray energy center becomes activated, and at that point
incarnation ceases to be automatic.
21.10 QUESTIONER When incarnation ceases to become automatic I am
assuming that the entity can decide when he needs to reincarnate for the
benefit of his own learning. Does he also select his parents?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
196 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
21.11 QUESTIONER At this time in our cycle, near the end, what percentage of
the entities, approximately, incarnating are making their own choices?
R A I am Ra. The approximate percentage is five four, fifty-four [54]
percent.
21.12 QUESTIONER Thank you. During this first 25,000-year cycle was there any
industrial development at all? Was there any machinery available during
this period to the people?
R A I am Ra. Using the term “machine” to the meaning which you
ascribe, the answer is no. However, there were, shall we say, various
implements of wood and rock which were used in order to obtain food
and for use in aggression.
21.13 QUESTIONER At the end of this first 25,000-year cycle, then, was there any
physical change that occurred rapidly like that which occurs at a 75,000-
year cycle, or is this just an indexing time for a harvesting period?
R A I am Ra. There was no change except that which, according to
intelligent energy, or what you may term physical evolution, suited
physical complexes to their environment—this being of the color of the
skin due to the area of the sphere upon which entities lived, the gradual
growth of peoples due to improved intake of foodstuffs.
21.14 QUESTIONER Then we have a condition where at the end of the first
25,000-year period, I would say the— I am guessing that the Guardians
discovered that there was no harvest of either positive or negatively
oriented entities. Tell me then what happened? What action was taken,
etc.?
R A I am Ra. There was no action taken except to remain aware of the
possibility of a calling for help or understanding among the entities of this
density. The Confederation is concerned with the preservation of the
conditions conducive to learning. This, for the most part, revolves about
the primal distortion of Free Will.
21.15 QUESTIONER Then the Confederation gardeners did nothing, I’m
assuming, until some of the plants in their garden, shall I say, called them
for help. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
SESSION 21 197
21.16 QUESTIONER When did the first call occur, and how did it occur?
R A The first calling was approximately four six thousand, forty-six
thousand [46,000] of your years ago. This calling was of those of Maldek.
These entities were aware of their need for rectifying the consequences of
their action and were in some confusion in an incarnate state as to the
circumstances of their incarnation: the unconscious being aware, the
conscious being quite confused. This created a calling. The Confederation
sent love and light to these entities.
21.17 QUESTIONER How did the Confederation send this love and light?
Precisely what did they do?
R A I am Ra. There dwell within the Confederation planetary entities
who, from their planetary spheres, do nothing but send love and light as
pure streamings to those who call. This is not in the form of conceptual
thought but of pure and undifferentiated love.
21.18 QUESTIONER Did the first distortion of the Law of One require then that
equal time, shall I say, be given to the self-service oriented group?
R A I am Ra. In this case this was not necessary for some of your time due
to the orientation of the entities.
21.19 QUESTIONER What was their orientation?
R A The orientation of these entities was such that the aid of the
Confederation was not perceived.
21.20 QUESTIONER Since it was not perceived it was not necessary to balance
this. Is that correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. What is necessary to balance is opportunity.
When there is ignorance, there is no opportunity. When there exists a
potential, then each opportunity shall be balanced, this balancing caused
by not only the positive and negative orientations of those offering aid
but also the orientation of those requesting aid.
21.21 QUESTIONER I see. I want to clear up a point here, then. When was the
first contact by the Orion group? In years?
198 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. As we have said, the Orion group attempted contact
approximately six zero thousand [60,000] of your years in the past, as you
measure time.
21.22 QUESTIONER I’m sorry, I meant the first attempt in the second major
cycle. I’m now working in the second 25,000 years. How many years ago
was the Orion group’s attempt in that cycle?
R A I am Ra. The Orion group next attempted in more fertile territory
approximately three six zero zero [3,600] of your years in the past, as you
measure time.
21.23 QUESTIONER In other words, there was no attempt 46,000 years ago by the
Orion group to contact. Is that correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
21.24 QUESTIONER As we progress into the second 25,000-year cycle, did— At
this time, during this period, was this the period of Lemuria?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. However, those who escaped the
destruction of Lemuria by natural catastrophe, and were thus of Lemurian
background, continued their learn/teachings at locations ranging from
your South America onward through the Americas, as you know them,
and continuing over what was at that time a bridge which no longer
exists. There were those in what you would call Russia . . . [tape ends]
21.25 QUESTIONER Just to quickly refresh my mind: how many years ago did
Lemuria suffer its catastrophe?
R A I am Ra. This was approximately fifty thousand [50,000] of your
years ago. The origins being approximately five three, fifty-three thousand
[53,000] of your years ago, the damage being completed in that last small
cycle of the first master cycle.
21.26 QUESTIONER Did you mean to say master or major cycle?
R A I am Ra. The appropriate sound vibration complex is major cycle.
21.27 QUESTIONER Thank you. Then did the ending of this first major cycle
have something to do with the destruction of Lemuria, or did this
destruction just happen to occur at the end of that cycle?
SESSION 21 199
R A I am Ra. There is a confluence of energies at the ending of a major
cycle. This encouraged what was already an inevitable adjustment in the
movement of the surfaces of your planetary sphere.
21.28 QUE STIONER Thank you very much. I apologize for being so stupid in
making my questions, but this has cleared up the point nicely for me.
Thank you.
Then in the second 25,000-year major cycle was there any great
civilization that developed?
R A I am Ra. In the sense of greatness of technology there were no great
societies during this cycle. There was some advancement among those of
Deneb who had chosen to incarnate as a body in what you would call
China.
There were appropriately positive steps in activating the green-ray energy
complex in many portions of your planetary sphere including the
Americas, the continent which you call Africa, the island which you call
Australia, and that which you know as India, as well as various scattered
peoples.
None of these became what you would name great as the greatness of
Lemuria or Atlantis is known to you due to the formation of strong social
complexes and in the case of Atlantis, very great technological
understandings.
However, in the South American area of your planetary sphere, as you
know it, there grew to be a great vibratory distortion towards love. These
entities were harvestable at the end of the second major cycle without ever
having formed strong social or technological complexes.
This will be the final question in completion of this session. Is there a
query we may answer quickly before we close, as this instrument is
somewhat depleted?
21.29 QUESTIONER I just wanted to apologize for a bit of confusion on my part
in carrying on to this second 25,000 years.
I would just like to ask if there is anything I could do to make the
instrument more comfortable? We would hope to have a second session
later today.
200 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. You may observe a slight misalignment between book,
candle, and perpendicularity of censer. This is not significant, but as we
have said, the cumulative effects upon this instrument are not well. You
are conscientious. It is well to have a second session given the appropriate
exercising and manipulation of this instrument’s physical complex.
I am Ra. I leave you in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator.
Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One
Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 22
FEBRUARY 10, 1981
22.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the Infinite
Creator. I communicate now.
22.1 QUESTIONER The instrument would like to ask a couple of questions of
you. I’ll get them out of the way first. The instrument would like to know
why she smells the incense at various times during the day in various
places?
R A I am Ra. This instrument has spent a lifetime in dedication to service.
This has brought this instrument to this nexus in space/time with the
conscious and unconscious distortion towards service, with the further
conscious distortion towards service by communication. Each time, as
you would put it, that we perform this working our social-memorycomplex-vibrational distortion meshes more firmly with this instrument’s
unconscious distortions towards service. Thus we are becoming a part of
this instrument’s vibratory complex and it a part of ours. This occurs
upon the unconscious level, the level whereby the mind has gone down
through to the roots of consciousness which you may call cosmic.
This instrument is not consciously aware of this slow changing of the
meshing vibratory complex. However, as the dedication on both levels
continues, and the workings continue, there are signals sent from the
unconscious in a symbolic manner. Because this instrument is extremely
keen in its sense of smell this association takes place unconsciously, and
the thought-form of this odor is witnessed by the entity.
22.2 QUESTIONER Secondly, she would like to know why she feels more healthy
now after she does these sessions. She’s generally feeling more healthy as
time goes on.
R A I am Ra. This is a function of the free will of the entity. This entity
has, for many of your years, prayed a certain set of sound vibration
complexes before opening to communication. Before the trance state was
achieved this prayer remained within the conscious portion of the mind
complex and, though helpful, was not as effective as the consequence of
this prayer, as you would call this vibrational sound complex, which then 
202 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
goes directly into the unconscious level, thus more critically affecting the
communication from the spiritual complex.
Also, this entity has begun, due to this working, to accept certain
limitations which it placed upon itself in order to set the stage for services
such as it now performs. This also is an aid to re-aligning the distortions
of the physical complex with regard to pain.
22.3 QUESTIONER Thank you. I’ll ask a couple of questions to clear up the end
of the second cycle, the second major cycle. And then we’ll go on to the
third and last of the major cycles.
Can you tell me the life span, the average life span, at the end of the
second major cycle?
R A I am Ra. By the end of the second major cycle the life span was as you
know it, with certain variations among geographically isolated peoples
more in harmony with intelligent energy and less bellicose.
22.4 QUESTIONER Can you tell me the length of that . . . average span, in years,
at the end of the second major cycle?
R A I am Ra. The average is perhaps misleading. To be precise, many
spent approximately thirty-five to forty of your years in one incarnation,
with the possibility not considered abnormal of a life span approaching
one hundred of your years.
22.5 QUESTIONER Then can you give me a— Can I assume, then, that this
drastic drop from 700-year life span to one less than one hundred years in
length during this second 25,000-year period was because of an
intensification of a . . . of a condition of lack of service to others? Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. This is, in part, correct. By the end of the second cycle, the
Law of Responsibility had begun to be effectuated by the increasing
ability of entities to grasp those lessons which there are to be learned in
this density. Thus, entities had discovered many ways to indicate a
bellicose nature, not only as tribes or what you call nations, but in
personal relationships, each with the other: the concept of barter having
given way in many cases to the concept of money; also, the concept of
ownership having won ascendancy over the concept of non-ownership on
an individual or group basis.
SESSION 22 203
Each entity, then, was offered many more subtle ways of demonstrating
either service towards others or service to self, with the distortion of the
manipulation of others. As each lesson was understood, those lessons of
sharing, of giving, of receiving in free gratitude—each lesson could be
rejected in practice.
Without demonstrating the fruits of such learn/teaching the life span
became greatly reduced, for the ways of honor/duty were not being
accepted.
22.6 QUESTIONER Would this shortened life span help the entity in any way in
that he would have more times in between incarnations to review his
mistakes, or would this shortened life span hinder him?
R A I am Ra. Both are correct. The shortening of the life span is a
distortion of the Law of One which suggests that an entity not receive
more experience in more intensity than it may bear. This is only in effect
upon an individual level and does not hold sway over planetary or social
complexes.
Thus the shortened life span is due to the necessity for removing an entity
from the intensity of experience which ensues when wisdom and love are,
having been rejected, reflected back into the consciousness of the Creator
without being accepted as part of the self, this then causing the entity to
have the need for healing and for much evaluation of the incarnation.
The incorrectness lies in the truth that, given appropriate circumstances, a
much longer incarnation in your space/time continuum is very helpful for
continuing this intensive work until conclusions have been reached
through the catalytic process.
22.7 QUESTIONER You spoke of the South American group that was harvestable
at the end of the second cycle. How long was their average life span at the
end of the second cycle?
R A I am Ra. This isolated group had achieved life spans stretching
upwards towards the nine-hundred-year [900-year] life span appropriate
to this density.
22.8 QUESTIONER Then I’m assuming the planetary action that we’re
experiencing now, which shortens, it seems, all life spans here, was not 
204 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
strong enough at that time to affect them and shorten their life span
regardless. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. It is well to remember that at that nexus in
space/time great isolation was possible.
22.9 QUESTIONER About how many people populated the earth totally at that
time; that is, incarnated in the physical at any one time?
R A I am Ra. I am assuming that you intend to query regarding the
number of incarnate mind/body/spirit complexes at the end of the second
major cycle, this number being approximately three four five, oh oh oh,
three hundred forty-five thousand [345,000] entities.
22.10 QUESTIONER Approximately how many were harvestable out of the total
number?
R A I am Ra. There were approximately one hundred fifty [150] entities
harvestable.
22.11 QUESTIONER A very small number. Then as the next cycle started . . . are
these the entities then that stayed to work on the planet?
R A I am Ra. These entities were visited by the Confederation and became
desirous of remaining in order to aid the planetary consciousness. This is
correct.
22.12 QUESTIONER What type of visit did the Confederation make to this group
of 150 entities?
R A I am Ra. A light being appeared bearing that which may be called a
shield of light. It spoke of the oneness and infinity of all creation and of
those things which await those ready for harvest. It described in golden
words the beauties of love as lived. It then allowed a telepathic linkage to
progressively show those who were interested the plight of third density
when seen as a planetary complex. It then left.
22.13 QUESTIONER And did all of these entities then decide to stay and help
during the next 25,000-year cycle?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. As a group they stayed. There were those
peripherally associated with this culture which did not stay. However,
they were not able to be harvested either and so, beginning at the very
highest, shall we say, of the sub-octaves of third density, repeated this 
SESSION 22 205
density. Many of those who have been of a loving nature are not
wanderers but those of this particular origin of second cycle.
22.14 QUESTIONER Are all of these entities still with us in this cycle?
R A I am Ra. The entities repeating the third-density major cycle have, in
some few cases, been able to leave. These entities have chosen to join their
brothers and sisters, as you would call these entities.
22.15 QUESTIONER Were any of these entities names that we know from our
historical past? That have appeared as incarnated beings we find in our
history?
R A I am Ra. The one known as sound vibration complex, Saint
Augustine, is of such a nature. The one known as Saint Teresa of such a
nature. The one known as Saint Francis of Assisi of such nature. These
entities, being of monastic background, as you would call it, found
incarnation in the same type of ambiance appropriate for further learning.
22.16 QUESTIONER Well, then as the cycle terminated 25,000 years ago, what
was the reaction of the Confederation to the lack of harvest?
R A I am Ra. We became concerned.
22.17 QUESTIONER Was any action taken immediately, or did you wait for a call?
R A I am Ra. The Council of Saturn acted only in allowing the entry into
third density of other mind/body/spirit complexes of third density, not
wanderers, but those who sought further third-density experience. This
was done randomly so that free will would not be violated, for there was
not yet a call.
22.18 Q UESTIONER Was the next action taken by the Confederation when a call
occurred?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
22.19 QUESTIONER Who, or what group, produced this call, and what action was
taken by the Confederation?
R A The calling was that of Atlanteans. This calling was for what you
would call understanding with the distortion towards helping otherselves. The action taken is that which you take part in at this time: the
impression of information through channels, as you would call them.
206 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
22.20 QUESTIONER Was this first calling then at a time before Atlantis became
technologically advanced?
R A I am Ra. This is basically correct.
22.21 QUESTIONER Then did the technological advancement of Atlantis come
because of this call? I am assuming the call was answered to bring them
the Law of One and the Law of Love as a distortion of the Law of One,
but did they also then get technological information that caused them to
grow into such a highly technological society?
R A I am Ra. Not at first. At about the same time as we first appeared in
the skies over Egypt and continuing thereafter, other entities of the
Confederation appeared unto Atlanteans who had reached a level of
philosophical understanding, shall we misuse this word, which was
consonant with communication to encourage and inspire studies in the
mystery of unity.
However, requests being made for healing and other understandings,
information was passed having to do with crystals and the building of
pyramids as well as temples, as you would call them, which were
associated with training.
22.22 QUESTIONER Was this training the same type of initiatory training that was
done with the Egyptians?
R A I am Ra. This training was different in that the social complex was
more, shall we say, sophisticated and less contradictory and barbarous in
its ways of thinking. Therefore the temples were temples of learning
rather than the attempt being made to totally separate and put upon a
pedestal the healers.
22.23 QUESTIONER Then were there what we would call priests trained in these
temples?
R A I am Ra. You would not call them priests in the sense of celibacy, of
obedience, and of poverty. They were priests in the sense of those devoted
to learning.
The difficulties became apparent as those trained in this learning began to
attempt to use crystal powers for those things other than healing, as they
were involved not only with learning but became involved with what you
would call the governmental structure.
SESSION 22 207
22.24 QUESTIONER Was all of their information given to them in the way you’re
giving our information now, through an instrument such as this
instrument?
R A I am Ra. There were visitations from time to time but none of
importance in the, shall we say, historical passage of events in your
space/time continuum.
22.25 QUESTIONER Was it necessary for them to have a unified social complex
for these visitations to occur? What conditions were . . . I’m saying, what
conditions were necessary for these visitations to occur?
R A I am Ra. The conditions were two: the calling of a group of people
whose square overcame the integrated resistance of those unwilling to
search or learn; the second requirement, the relative naïveté of those
members of the Confederation who felt that direct transfer of information
would necessarily be as helpful for Atlanteans as it had been for the
Confederation entity.
22.26 QUESTIONER I see then. What you’re saying is these naïve Confederation
entities had had the same thing happen to them in the past, so they were
doing the same thing for the Atlantean entities. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. We remind you that we are one of the naïve
members of that Confederation and are still attempting to recoup the
damage for which we feel responsibility. It is our duty as well as honor to
continue with your peoples, therefore, until all traces of the distortions of
our teach/learnings have been embraced by their opposite distortions and
balance achieved.
22.27 QUESTIONER I see. Then I will state the picture I have now of Atlantis, and
you can tell me if I’m correct.
We have a condition where a large enough number of the entities of
Atlantis had started at least going in the direction of the Law of One and
living the Law of One for their call to be heard by the Confederation.
This call was heard because, using the Law of Squares, it overrode the
opposition of the Atlantean entities that were not calling. The
Confederation then used channels such as we use now for communication
and also made contact directly, but this turned out to be a mistake
because it was perverted by some of the entities of Atlantis. Is this correct?
208 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A This is correct with one exception. There is only one law. That is the
Law of One. Other so-called laws are distortions of this law, some of
them primal and most important for progress to be understood.
However, it is well that each so-called law, which we also call “way,” be
understood as a distortion rather than a law. There is no multiplicity to
the Law of One.
This will be the final question in length of this working. Please ask it
now.
22.28 QUESTI ONER What was the—the only question I was going to ask, that I
can think of was— Could you give me the average life span of the
Atlantean population?
R A I am Ra. The average life span, as we have said, is misleading. The
Atlanteans were, in the early part of their cultural experience, used to life
spans from seventy [70] to one hundred forty [140] years, this being, of
course, approximate. Due to increasing desire for power, the lifetime
decreased rapidly in the later stages of this civilization, and thus the
healing and rejuvenating information was requested.
Do you have any brief queries before we close?
22.29 QUESTIONER Is there any way that we can make the instrument more
comfortable or anything that we can do for her?
R A I am Ra. The instrument is well. It is somewhat less easy to maintain
clear contact during a time when some or one of the entities in the circle
of working is or are not fully conscious. We request that entities in the
circle be aware that their energy is helpful for increasing the vitality of this
contact. We thank you for being conscientious in the asking.1
I am Ra. It is a great joy to leave you in the love and the light of the One
Infinite Creator. Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and the peace
of the One Creator. Adonai.
 1 There was a visitor present for this session who laid down on the floor to meditate
and subsequently fell asleep.
SESSION 23
FEBRUARY 11, 1981
23.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator.
We communicate now.
23.1 QUESTIONER You were speaking yesterday of the first contact made by the
Confederation which occurred during our third major cycle. You stated
that you appeared in the skies over Egypt at the same time,
approximately, aid was first given to Atlantis. Can you tell me why you
went to Egypt and your, shall we say, orientation of attitude and thinking
when you first went to Egypt?
R A I am Ra. At the time of which you speak there were those who chose
to worship the hawk-headed sun god which you know as vibrational
sound complex, “Horus.” This vibrational sound complex has taken other
vibrational sound complexes, the object of worship being the sun disc
represented in some distortion.
We were drawn to spend some time, as you would call it, scanning the
peoples for a serious interest amounting to a seeking with which we might
help without infringement. We found that at that time the social complex
was quite self-contradictory in its so-called religious beliefs, and,
therefore, there was not an appropriate calling for our vibration. Thus, at
that time, which you know of as approximately eighteen thousand
[18,000] of your years in your past, we departed without taking action.
23.2 QUESTIONER You stated yesterday that you appeared in the skies over
Egypt at that time. Were the Egyptian entities able to see you in their
skies?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
23.3 QUESTIONER What did they see, and how did this affect their attitudes?
R A I am Ra. They saw what you would speak of as crystal-powered bellshaped craft.
This did not affect them due to their firm conviction that many
wondrous things occurred as a normal part of a world, as you would call 
210 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
it, in which many, many deities had powerful control over supernatural
events.
23.4 QUESTIONER Did you have a reason for being visible to them rather than
invisible?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
23.5 QUESTIONER Can you tell me your reason for being visible to them?
R A I am Ra. We allowed visibility because it did not make any difference.
23.6 QUESTIONER I see. Then at this time you did not contact them. Can you
tell me the same . . . answer the same questions I just asked with respect
to your next attempt to contact the Egyptians?
R A I am Ra. The next attempt was prolonged. It occurred over a period
of time. The nexus, or center, of our efforts was a decision upon our parts
that there was a sufficient calling to attempt to walk among your peoples
as brothers.
We laid this plan before the Council of Saturn, offering ourselves as
service-oriented wanderers of the type which land directly upon the inner
planes without incarnative processes. Thus we emerged, or materialized,
in physical-chemical complexes representing as closely as possible our
natures, this effort being to appear as brothers and spend a limited
amount of time as teachers of the Law of One, for there was an everstronger interest in the sun body, and this vibrates in concordance with
our particular distortions.
We discovered that for each word we could utter, there were thirty
impressions we gave by our very being which confused those entities we
had come to serve. After a short period we removed ourselves from these
entities and spent much time attempting to understand how best to serve
those to whom we had offered ourselves in love/light.
The ones who were in contact with that geographical entity which you
know of as Atlantis had conceived of the potentials for healing by use of
the pyramid-shape entities. In considering this and making adjustments
for the differences in the distortion complexes of the two geographical
cultures, as you would call them, we went before the Council again,
offering this plan to the Council as an aid to the healing and the longevity
of those in the area you know of as Egypt. In this way we hoped to 
SESSION 23 211
facilitate the learning process as well as offering philosophy articulating
the Law of One. Again the Council approved.
Approximately eleven thousand [11,000] of your years ago we entered, by
thought-form, your—we correct this instrument. We sometimes have
difficulty due to low vitality. Approximately eight five zero zero [8,500]
years ago, having considered these concepts carefully, we returned, never
having left in thought, to the thought-form areas of your vibrational
planetary complex and considered for some of your years, as you measure
time, how to appropriately build these structures.
The first, the Great Pyramid, was formed approximately six thousand
[6,000] of your years ago. Then, in sequence, after this performing by
thought of the building or architecture of the Great Pyramid, using the
more, shall we say, local or earthly material rather than thought-form
material to build other pyramidical structures. This continued for
approximately fifteen hundred [1,500] of your years.
Meanwhile, the information concerning initiation and healing by crystal
was being given. The one known as “Akhenaten” was able to perceive this
information without significant distortion and, for a time, moved, shall
we say, heaven and earth in order to invoke the Law of One and to order
the priesthood of these structures in accordance with the distortions of
initiation and true compassionate healing. This was not to be longlasting.
At this entity’s physical dissolution from your third-density physical
plane, as we have said before, our teachings became quickly perverted, our
structures returning once again to the use of the so-called “royal,” or those
with distortions towards power.
23.7 QUESTIONER When you spoke of pyramid healing, I am assuming that the
primary healing was for the mind. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is partially correct. The healing, if it is to be
effectuated, must be a funneling without significant distortion of the
instreamings through the spiritual complex into the tree of mind. There
are parts of this mind which block energies flowing to the body complex.
In each case, in each entity, the blockage may well differ.
First, however, it is necessary to activate the sense of the spiritual channel
or shuttle. Then whether the blockage is from spiritual to mental, or from 
212 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
mental to physical, or whether it may simply be a random and purely
physical trauma, healing may then be carried out.
23.8 QUESTIONER When you started building the pyramid at Giza using
thought, were you at that time in contact with incarnate Egyptians, and
did they observe this building?
R A I am Ra. At that time we were not in close contact with incarnate
entities upon your plane. We were responding to a general calling of
sufficient energy in that particular location to merit action. We sent
thoughts to all who were seeking our information.
The appearance of the pyramid was a matter of tremendous surprise.
However, it was carefully designed to coincide with the incarnation of
one known as a great architect. This entity was later made into a deity, in
part due to this occurrence.
23.9 QUESTIONER What name did they give this deity?
R A I am Ra. This deity had the sound vibration complex Imhotep.
23.10 QUESTIONER Thank you. Then as an overall success, what can you tell me
about the relative success of the pyramid in any way at all? I understand
that it was . . . the pyramids for the purpose were basically unsuccessful in
that they didn’t produce the rise in consciousness that you’d hoped for,
but there must have been some success. Can you tell me of that?
R A I am Ra. We ask you to remember that we are of the Brothers and
Sisters of Sorrow. When one has been rescued from that sorrow to a
vision of the One Creator, then there is no concept of failure.
Our difficulty lay in the honor/responsibility of correcting the distortions
of the Law of One which occurred during our attempts to aid these
entities. The distortions are seen as responsibilities rather than failures;
the few who were inspired to seek, our only reason for the attempt.
Thus, we would perhaps be in the position of paradox in that as one saw
an illumination, we were what you call successful, and as others became
more sorrowful and confused, we were failures. These are your terms. We
persist in seeking to serve.
23.11 QUESTIONER You probably can’t answer this question, but I will ask it now
since we are in the area that I think this occurred in. I feel this somewhat
of a duty of mine to ask this question because Henry Puharich will be 
SESSION 23 213
visiting me later this month. Was this entity involved in any of these
times of which you have just spoken?
R A I am Ra. You are quite correct in your assumption that we can speak
in no way concerning the entity Henry. If you will consider this entity’s
distortions with regard to what you call “proof” you will
understand/grasp our predicament.
23.12 QUESTIONER I had assumed before I asked the question that that would be
the answer. I only asked it for his benefit because he would have wished
for me to.
Can you tell me what happened to Akhenaten after his physical death?
R A I am Ra. This entity was then put through the series of healing and
review of incarnational experience which is appropriate for third-density
experience. This entity had been somewhat in the distortions of power
ameliorated by the great devotion to the Law of One. This entity thus
resolved to enter a series of incarnations in which it had no distortions
towards power.
23.13 QUESTIONER Thank you. Can you tell me what the average life span was at
the time of Akhenaten, for the Egyptians?
R A I am Ra. The average life span of these people was approximately
thirty-five to fifty of your years. There was much, what you would call,
disease of a physical complex nature.
23.14 QUESTIONER Can you tell me of the reasons for the disease? I think I
already know, but I think it might be good for the book to state this at
this time.
R A I am Ra. This is, as we have mentioned before, not particularly
informative with regard to the Law of One. However, the land you know
of as Egypt at that time was highly barbarous in its living conditions, as
you would call them. The river which you call Nile was allowed to flood
and to recede, thus providing the fertile grounds for the breeding of
diseases which may be carried by insects. Also, the preparation of
foodstuffs allowed diseases to form. Also, there was difficulty in many
cases with sources of water, and water which was taken caused disease due
to the organisms therein.
214 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
23.15 QUESTIONER I was really questioning more about the more basic cause of
the disease rather than the mechanism of its transmission. I was going
back to the root or thought which created the possibility of this disease.
Could you shortly tell me if I am correct in assuming that the general
reduction of thought over the long time on planet Earth with respect to
an understanding of the Law of One created a condition in which this,
what we call, disease could develop? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct and perceptive. You, as questioner, begin now
to penetrate the outer teachings.
The root cause in this particular society was not so much a bellicose
action—although there were, shall we say, tendencies—but rather the
formation of a money system and a very active trading and development
of those tendencies towards greed and power; thus, the enslaving of
entities by other entities and the misapprehension of the Creator within
each entity.
23.16 QUESTIONER Thank you. Now, I understand, if I am correct, that a South
American contact was also made. Can you tell me of the . . .
approximately the same question I asked about your contact, with respect
to the attitude or . . . about the contact, and its ramifications, and the
plan for the contact, and why the people were contacted in South
America?
R A I am Ra. This will be the final full question of this session. The
entities who walked among those in your South American continent were
called by a similar desire upon the part of the entities therein to learn of
the manifestations of the sun. They worshiped this source of light and
life.
Thus, these entities were visited by light beings not unlike ourselves.
Instructions were given, and they were more accepted and less distorted
than ours. The entities themselves began to construct a series of
underground and hidden cities including pyramid structures.
These pyramids were somewhat at variance from the design that we had
promulgated. However, the original ideas were the same with the
addition of a desire, or intention, of creating places of meditation and
rest, a feeling of the presence of the One Creator; these pyramids then
being for all people, not only initiates and those to be healed.
They left this density when it was discovered that their plans were solidly 
SESSION 23 215
in motion and, in fact, had been recorded. During the next approximately
three thousand five hundred [3,500] years these plans became, though
somewhat distorted, in a state of near-completion in many aspects.
Therefore, as is the case in all breakings of the quarantine, the entity who
was helping the South American entities along the South American ways
you call, in part, the Amazon River went before the Council of Saturn to
request a second attempt to correct in person the distortions which had
occurred in their plans. This having been granted, this entity, or social
memory complex, returned, and the entity chosen as messenger came
among the peoples once more to correct the errors.
Again, all was recorded, and the entity rejoined its social memory
complex and left your skies.
As in our experience, the teachings were, for the most part, greatly and
grossly perverted to the extent, in later times, of actual human sacrifice
rather than healing of humans. Thus, this social memory complex is also
given the honor/duty of remaining until those distortions are worked out
of the distortion complexes of your peoples.
May we ask if there are any questions of a brief nature before we close?
23.17 QUESTIONER The only questions I have, is there anything we can do to
make the instrument more comfortable, and since you stated that she
seems to be low on energy, is it possible at all to have another session later
today?
R A I am Ra. All is well with alignments. However, this instrument would
benefit from rest from the trance state for this diurnal period.
23.18 QUESTIONER Thank you.
R A Is there any other brief question?
23.19 QUESTIONER This is a dumb question, but there was a movie called Battle
Beyond the Stars. I don’t know if you are familiar with it or not. I guess
you are. It seemed to have what you’re telling us included in the script. Is
this correct? Do you know anything about it?
R A I am Ra. This particular creation of your entities had some distortions
of the Law of One and its scenario upon your physical plane. This is
correct.
216 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
I am Ra. I leave this instrument now. I leave each of you in the love and
the light of the One Infinite Creator. Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the
power and the peace of the One Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 24
FEBRUARY 15, 1981
24.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the Infinite
Creator. I communicate now.
24.1 QUESTIONER We are a little concerned about the physical condition of the
instrument. She has a slight congestion. If you can tell me of the
suitability of this session at all, I would appreciate it.
R A I am Ra. This instrument’s vital energies of the physical complex are
low. The session will be appropriately shortened.
24.2 QUESTIONER She requests that if it is possible for you to cause the
instrument’s vehicle to cough at intervals that would help her. Is this
possible?
R A I am Ra. Please restate query, specifying interval.
24.3 QUESTIONER She requests that you cause the instrument to cough about at
least after each communication. Is this possible?
R A I am Ra. This is possible. [Cough.]
24.4 QUESTIONER Thank you. The way I intend to continue with the book is to
follow on through the last 25,000-year cycle that we’re in now and
possibly investigate a little of fourth-density conditions and thereby find
many places that we can go back and delve further into the Law of One.
The first material I expect to be not too deep with respect to the Law of
One. I hope to get into greater philosophical areas of the Law of One in
more advanced sessions so as to make the material progress so that it will
be understandable. I hope that I’m following the right direction in this.
In the last session, you mentioned that during this last 25,000-year cycle
the Atlanteans, Egyptians, and those in South America were contacted,
and then the Confederation departed. I understand the Confederation
did not come back for some time. Could you tell me of the reasons, and
consequences, and attitudes with respect to the next contact with those
here on planet Earth?
R A I am Ra. In the case of the Atlanteans, enlargements upon the
information given resulted in those activities distorted towards bellicosity, 
218 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
which resulted in the final second Atlantean catastrophe one zero eight
two one [10,821] of your years in the past, as you measure time.
Many, many were displaced due to societal actions both upon Atlantis
and upon those areas of what you would call North African deserts to
which some Atlanteans had gone after the first conflict. Earth changes
continued due to these, what you would call, nuclear bombs and other
crystal weapons, sinking the last great land masses approximately nine six
zero zero [9,600] of your years ago.
In the Egyptian and the South American experiments results, though not
as widely devastating, were as far from the original intention of the
Confederation. It was clear to not only us but also to the Council and the
Guardians that our methods were not appropriate for this particular
sphere.
Our attitude, thus, was one of caution, observation, and continuing
attempts to creatively discover methods whereby contact from our entities
could be of service with the least distortion and, above all, with the least
possibility of becoming perversions, or antitheses, of our intentions in
sharing information.
24.5 QUESTIONER Could you have the instrument cough, please?
R A [Cough.]
24.6 QUESTIONER Thank you. Then I assume the Confederation stayed away
from Earth for a period of time. What condition created the next contact
the Confederation made?
R A I am Ra. In approximately three six zero zero [3,600] of your years in
the past, as you measure time, there was an influx of those of the Orion
group, as you call them. Due to the increasing negative influences upon
thinking and acting distortions, they were able to begin working with
those whose impression from olden times, as you may say, was that they
were special and different.
An entity of the Confederation, many, many thousands of your years in
the past, the one you may call Yahweh, had, by genetic cloning, set up
these particular biases among these peoples who had come gradually to
dwell in the vicinity of Egypt, as well as in many, many other places, by
dispersion after the down-sinking of the land mass Mu. Here the Orion
group found fertile soil in which to plant the seeds of negativity; these 
SESSION 24 219
seeds, as always, being those of the elite, the different, those who
manipulate or enslave others.
The one known as Yahweh felt a great responsibility to these entities.
However, the Orion group had been able to impress upon the peoples the
name Yahweh as the one responsible for this elitism. Yahweh then was
able to take, what you would call, stock of its vibratory patterns and
became, in effect, a more eloquently effective sound vibration complex.
In this complex the old Yahweh, now unnamed, but meaning “He
comes,” began to send positively oriented philosophy. This was
approximately, in your past, of two—we correct this instrument—three
three zero zero [3,300] years. Thus, the intense portion of what has
become known as Armageddon was joined.
24.7 QUESTIONER Could you create another cough for us, please?
R A [Cough.]
24.8 QUESTIONER Thank you. I have a question about how the Orion group
got in 3,600 years ago. How did they get through the quarantine? Was
that a random window effect?
R A I am Ra. At that time this was not entirely so as there was a proper
calling for this information. When there is a mixed calling, the window
effect is much more put into motion by the ways of the densities.
The quarantine in this case was, shall we say, not patrolled so closely, due
to the lack of strong polarity, the windows thus needing to be very weak
in order for penetration. As your harvest approaches, those forces of what
you would call light work according to their call. The ones of Orion have
the working only according to their call. This calling is in actuality not
nearly as great.
Thus, due to the Way of Empowering, or Squares, there is much
resistance to penetration. Yet free will must be maintained, and those
desiring negatively oriented information, as you would call it, must then
be satisfied by those moving through by the window effect. [Cough.]
24.9 QUESTIONER Then Yahweh, in an attempt to correct what he saw as what I
might call a mistake (I know you don’t want to call it that), started 3,300
years ago with the positive philosophy. Were both the Orion and Yahweh 
220 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
philosophies impressed telepathically, or were there other techniques
used?
R A I am Ra. There were two other techniques used: one by the entity no
longer called Yahweh, who still felt that if it could raise up entities which
were superior to the negative forces, that these superior entities could
spread the Law of One. Thus this entity, Yod Heh Shin Vau Heh, came
among your people in form according to incarnate being and mated in
the normal reproductive manner of your physical complexes, thus
birthing a generation of much larger beings, these beings called “Anak.”1
The other method used to greater effect later in the scenario, as you
would call it, was the thought-form such as we often use among your
peoples to suggest the mysterious or the sublime. You may be familiar
with some of these appearances.
24.10 QUESTIONER Could you state some of those after making the instrument
cough, please?
R A [Cough.] I am Ra. This is information which you may discover.
However, we will briefly point the way by indicating the so-called wheel
within a wheel and the cherubim with sleepless eye.
24.11 QUESTIONER Very good. Did the Orion group use similar methods for
their impression 3,600 years ago?
R A I am Ra. The group, or empire, had an emissary in your skies at that
time.
24.12 QUESTIONER Can you describe that emissary?
R A This emissary was of your fiery nature, which was hidden by the
nature of cloud in the day. This was to obliterate the questions of those
seeing such a vehicle and to make it consonant with these entities’
concept of what you may call the Creator.
24.13 QUE STIONER And then how was the impression or information passed on
to the entities after they saw this fiery cloud?
 1 The Anak, or Anakim, were a race of giants described in biblical texts.
SESSION 24 221
R A I am Ra. By thought transfer and by the causing of fiery phenomena
and other events to appear as being miraculous through the use of
thought-forms.
24.14 QUESTIONER Then were there any prophets that we have now recorded
that sprung from this era or soon after it?
R A I am Ra. Those of the empire were not successful in maintaining their
presence for long after the approximate three zero zero zero [3,000] date
in your history and were, perforce, left with the decision to physically
leave the skies. The so-called prophets were often given mixed
information, but the worst that the Orion group could do was to cause
these prophets to speak of doom, as prophecy in those days was the
occupation of those who love[d] their fellow beings and wish[ed] only to
be of service to them and to the Creator.
24.15 QUESTIONER After making the instrument cough . . .
R A [Cough.]
24.16 QUESTIONER Could you tell me if you’re saying the Orion group was
successful in polluting, shall we say, some of the positively oriented
prophets with messages of doom?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. Your next query shall be the last full query
for this session.
24.17 QUESTIONER Could you tell me why the Orion group had to leave after—I
believe, it figures to be a six-hundred-year period—why they had to
vacate?
R A I am Ra. Although the impression that they had given to those who
called them [was] that these entities were an elite group, that which you
know as Diaspora occurred, causing much dispersion of these peoples so
that they became an humbler and more honorable breed, less bellicose
and more aware of the loving-kindness of the One Creator.
The creation about them tended towards being somewhat bellicose,
somewhat oriented towards the enslavement of others, but they
themselves, the target of the Orion group by means of their genetic
superiority/weakness, became what you may call the underdogs, thereby
letting the feelings of gratitude for their neighbors, their family, and their 
222 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
One Creator begin to heal the feelings of elitism which led to the
distortions of power over others which had caused their own bellicosity.
Any short queries may be asked now.
24.18 QUESTIONER There’s one thing that’s been bothering me a little bit which
I was just reading about—
R A [Cough.]
24.19 QUESTIONER It’s not too important, but I would really be interested to
know if Dwight Eisenhower met with either the Confederation or the
Orion group during the 1950s or that time?
R A I am Ra. The one of which you speak met with thought-forms which
are indistinguishable from third density. This was a test. We, the
Confederation, wished to see what would occur if this extremely
positively oriented and simple, congenial person with no significant
distortions towards power happened across peaceful information and the
possibilities which might append therefrom.
We discovered that this entity did not feel that those under his care could
deal with the concepts of other beings and other philosophies. Thus an
agreement reached then allowed him to go his way, ourselves to do
likewise; and a very quiet campaign, as we have heard you call it, be
continued alerting your peoples to our presence gradually. Events have
overtaken this plan.
[Cough.] Is there any short query before we close?
24.20 QUESTIONER The only other question that went with that is: was there a
crashed spaceship, and are there small bodies now stored in our military
installations?
R A I am Ra. We do not wish to infringe upon your future. Gave we you
this information, we might be giving you more than you could
appropriately deal with in the space/time nexus of your present somewhat
muddled configuration of military and intelligence thought. Therefore,
we shall withhold this information.
24.21 QUESTIONER OK. Sorry to bother you with these type of questions—
R A [Cough.]
SESSION 24 223
24.22 QUESTIONER —but they were just bothering me. We will continue in our
next session with the Law of One and keep that uppermost in the scope
of the book, and try to get more deeply into the philosophy as we build a
framework for reference to the philosophy. Thank you very much.
R A I—
24.23 QUESTIONER Oh, please, I’m almost ready. Is there anything that we can
do to make the instrument more comfortable?
R A I am Ra. You are conscientious. Be careful only to adjust this
instrument’s upper appendages if its upper body is elevated.
I am Ra. All is well. It is our joy to speak with you. We leave in the love
and the light of the One Infinite Creator. Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in
the power and the peace of the One Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 25
FEBRUARY 16, 1981
25.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator.
We communicate now.
25.1 QUESTIONER . . . asking first what cause or complex of causes has led to the
instrument’s chest cold, as it is called?
R A I am Ra. This distortion towards illness was caused by the free will of
the instrument in accepting a chemical substance which you call LSD.
This was carefully planned by those entities which do not desire this
instrument to remain viable. The substance has within it the facility of
removing large stores of vital energy from the ingestor.
The first hope of the Orion entity which arranged this opportunity was
that this instrument would become less polarized towards what you call
the positive. Due to conscious efforts upon the part of this instrument,
using the substance as a programmer for service to others and for
thankfulness, this instrument was spared this distortion and there was no
result satisfactory to the Orion group.
The second hope lay in the possible misuse of the most powerful means
of transmission of energy between your peoples in the area of bodycomplex distortions. We have not previously spoken of the various types
of energy blockages and transfers, positive and negative, that may take
place due to participation in your sexual reproductive complex of actions.
This entity, however, is a very strong entity with very little distortion
from universal green-ray love energy. Thus this particular plan was not
effected either, as the entity continued to give of itself in this context in
an open, or green-ray, manner rather than attempting to receive,1 or to
manipulate, other-self.
The only remaining distortion available, since this entity would not
detune and would not cease sharing love universally under this chemical
substance, was simply to drain this entity of as much energy as possible.
This entity has a strong distortion towards busyness which it has been
attempting to overcome for some time, realizing it not to be the
 1 Ra possibly intended to say “deceive.”
SESSION 25 225
appropriate attitude for this work. In this particular area the ingestion of
this substance did indeed, shall we say, cause distortions away from
viability due to the busyness and the lack of desire to rest; this instrument
staying alert for much longer than appropriate. Thus much vital energy
was lost, making this instrument unusually susceptible to infections such
as it now experiences.
25.2 QUESTIONER The second question the instrument requested was: “How
may I best revitalize myself, not only now, but in the future?”
R A I am Ra. This instrument is aware of the basic needs of its
constitution, those being: meditation, acceptance of limitations,
experiences of joy through association with others and with the beauty as
of the singing; and the exercising with great contact, whenever possible,
with the life forces of second density, especially those of trees; this entity
also needing to be aware of the moderate but steady intake of foodstuffs,
exercise being suggested at a fairly early portion of the day and at a later
portion of the day before the resting.
25.3 QUESTIONER The third question that she requested to be asked was: “How
may Don and Jim help to revitalize me?”
R A I am Ra. This is not an appropriate question for full answer. We can
say only that these entities are most conscientious. We may add that due
to this instrument’s distortion towards imbalance in the space/time nexus,
it would be well were this entity accompanied during exercise.
25.4 QUESTIONER Thank you. We shall now continue with the material from
yesterday. You stated that about 3,000 years ago the Orion group left due
to Diaspora. Was the Confederation then able to make any progress after
the Orion group left?
R A I am Ra. For many of your centuries, both the Confederation and the
Orion Confederation busied themselves with each other upon planes
above your own, shall we say, planes in time/space whereby machinations
were conceived and the armor of light girded on. Battles have been and
are continuing to be fought upon these levels.
Upon the earth plane, energies had been set in motion which did not
cause a great deal of call. There were isolated instances of callings, one
such taking place beginning approximately two six zero zero [2,600] of
your years in the past in what you would call Greece at this time, and 
226 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
resulting in writings and understandings of some facets of the Law of
One. We especially note the one known as Thales and the one known as
Heraclitus, those being of the philosopher career, as you may call it,
teaching their students. We also point out the understandings of the one
known as Pericles.
At this time there was a limited amount of visionary information which
the Confederation was allowed to telepathically impress. However, for the
most part during this time empires died and rose according to the
attitudes and energies set in motion long ago, not resulting in strong
polarization but rather in that mixture of the positive and the warlike, or
negative, which has been characteristic of this final minor cycle of your
beingness.
25.5 QUESTIONER You spoke of an Orion Confederation and a battle being
fought between the Confederation and the Orion Confederation. Is it
possible to convey any concept of how this battle is fought?
R A I am Ra. Picture, if you will, your mind. Picture it then in total unity
with all other minds of your society. You are then single-minded, and
that which is a weak electrical charge in your physical illusion is now an
enormously powerful machine whereby thoughts may be projected as
things.
In this endeavor the Orion group charges, or attacks, the Confederation
arms with light. The result, a standoff, as you would call it, both energies
being somewhat depleted by this and needing to regroup; the negative
depleted through failure to manipulate, the positive depleted through
failure to accept that which is given.
25.6 QUESTIO NER Could you amplify the meaning of what you said by “failure
to accept that which is given?”
R A I am Ra. At the level of time/space at which this takes place in the
form of what you may call thought-war, the most accepting and loving
energy would be to so love those who wished to manipulate that those
entities were surrounded, engulfed, and transformed by positive energies.
This, however, being a battle of equals, the Confederation is aware that it
cannot, on equal footing, allow itself to be manipulated in order to
remain purely positive, for then, though pure, it would not be of any 
SESSION 25 227
consequence, having been placed by the so-called powers of darkness
under the heel, as you may say.
It is thus that those who deal with this thought-war must be defensive
rather than accepting in order to preserve their usefulness in service to
others. Thusly, they cannot accept fully what the Orion Confederation
wishes to give, that being enslavement. Thusly, some polarity is lost due
to this friction, and both sides, if you will, must then regroup.
It has not been fruitful for either side. The only consequence which has
been helpful is a balancing of the energies available to this planet so that
these energies have less necessity to be balanced in this space/time, thus
lessening the chances of planetary annihilation.
25.7 QUESTIONER Very important point, I believe. Does a portion of the
Confederation then engage in this thought battle? What percentage
engages?
R A I am Ra. This is the most difficult work of the Confederation. Only
four planetary entities at any one time are asked to partake in this
conflict.
25.8 QUESTIONER What density are these four planetary entities?
R A I am Ra. These entities are of the density of love, numbering four.
25.9 QUESTIONER Then I am assuming this is the most effective density for this
work. Would this density—an entity of this density—be more effective
for this type of work than, say, an entity of density five or six?
R A I am Ra. The fourth density is the only density besides your own
which, lacking the wisdom to refrain from battle, sees the necessity of the
battle. Thus it is necessary that fourth-density social memory complexes
be used.
25.10 QUESTIONER Am I correct in assuming, then, that fourth density on both
sides of the . . . of both the Orion and the Confederation sides are in this
battle, and that the densities fifth and sixth on the Orion side do not
engage in this? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This will be the last full question as this entity’s energies are
low.
228 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
It is partially correct. Fifth- and sixth-density entities positive would not
take part in this battle. Fifth-density negative would not take part in this
battle. Thus, the fourth density of both orientations join in this conflict.
May we ask for a few short questions before we close?
25.11 QUESTIONER Well, I will first ask the answer at the end if there’s anything
we can do to make the instrument really comfortable. I’ll only ask the
questions that the instrument has—or answer the questions that the
instrument has energy left to give, but I really would like to know of the
orientation of fifth-density negative for not participating in this battle.
R A I am Ra. The fifth density is the density of light, or wisdom. The socalled negative service-to-self entity in this density is at an high level of
awareness and wisdom and has ceased activity except by thought. The
fifth-density negative is extraordinarily compacted and separated from all
else.
25.12 QUESTIONER Thank you very much. We do not wish to deplete the
instrument, so is there anything that we can do to make the instrument
more comfortable?
R A I am Ra. You are very conscientious. As we requested previously, it
would be well to observe the angles taken by the more upright posture of
the entity. It is causing some nerve blockage in the portion of the body
complex called the elbows.
I am Ra. I leave you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One
Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 26
FEBRUARY 17, 1981
26.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator. I
communicate now.
26.1 QUESTIONER The first question is that, is any of the changing of what
we’ve done here for the instrument going to affect communication of the
instrument in any way? Have we set up here all right?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
26.2 QUESTIONER And do you mean that everything is satisfactory for
continued communication?
R A I am Ra. We meant that the changes affect this communication.
26.3 QUESTIONER Should we discontinue this communication because of these
changes, or should we continue?
R A I am Ra. You may do as you wish. However, we would be unable to
use this instrument at this space/time nexus without these modifications.
26.4 QUESTIONER Assuming that it is all right to continue, we’re down to the
last 3,000 years of this present cycle, and I was wondering if the Law of
One in either written or spoken form has been made available within this
past 3,000 years in any complete way such as we’re doing now? Is it
available in any other source?
R A I am Ra. There is no possibility of a complete source of information
of the Law of One in this density. However, certain of your writings
passed to you as your so-called holy works have portions of this law.
26.5 QUESTIONER Does the Bible as we know it have portions of this law in it?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
26.6 QUESTIONER Can you tell me if the Old Testament has any of the Law of
One?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
230 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
26.7 QUESTIONER Which has more of the Law of One in it, the Old Testament
or the New Testament?
R A I am Ra. Withdrawing from each of the collections of which you
speak the portions having to do with the Law of One, the content is
approximately equal. However, the so-called Old Testament has a larger
amount of negatively influenced material, as you would call it.
26.8 QUESTIONER Can you tell me about what percentage is Orion-influenced
in both the Old and the New Testaments?
R A We prefer that this be left to the discretion of those who seek the Law
of One. We are not speaking in order to judge. Such statements would be
construed by some of those who may read this material as judgmental.
We can only suggest a careful reading and inward digestion of the
contents. The understandings will become obvious.
26.9 QUESTIONER Thank you. Could you please make the instrument cough?
R A [Cough.]
26.10 QUESTIONER Thank you. Have you communicated with any of our
population in the third-density incarnate state in recent times?
R A I am Ra. Please restate, specifying “recent times” and the pronoun,
“you.”
26.11 QUESTIONER Has Ra communicated with any of our population in this
century, in the last, say, eighty years?
R A I am Ra. We have not.
26.12 QUESTIONER Has the Law of One been communicated within the past
eighty years by any other source to an entity in our population?
R A I am Ra. The Ways of One have seldom been communicated,
although there are rare instances in the previous eight zero [80] of your
years, as you measure time.
There have been many communications from fourth density due to the
drawing towards the harvest to fourth density. These are the Ways of
Universal Love and Understanding. The other teachings are reserved for
those whose depth of understanding, if you will excuse this misnomer,
recommend and attract such further communication.
SESSION 26 231
26.13 QUESTIONER Did the Confederation then step up its program of helping
planet Earth sometimes, some time late in this last major cycle? It seems
that they did from the previous data, especially with the Industrial
Revolution. Can you tell me the attitudes and reasonings behind this step
up? Is there any reason other than that they just wanted to produce more
leisure time in the last, say, a hundred years of the cycle? Is this the total
reason?
R A I am Ra. This is not the total reason. Approximately two zero zero
[200] of your years in the past, as you measure time, there began to be a
significant amount of entities who, by seniority, were incarnating for
learn/teaching purposes rather than for the lesser of the learn/teachings of
those less aware of the process. This was our signal to enable
communication to take place.
The wanderers which came among you began to make themselves felt at
approximately this time, firstly offering ideas or thoughts containing the
distortion of Free Will. This was the prerequisite for further wanderers
which had information of a more specific nature to offer. The thought
must precede the action.
26.14 QUESTIONER Could you please make the instrument cough?
R A [Cough.]
26.15 QUESTIONER Wondering if the one, Abraham Lincoln, could have possibly
been a wanderer?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. This entity was a normal, shall we say,
Earth being which chose to leave the vehicle and allow an entity to use it
on a permanent basis. This is relatively rare compared to the
phenomenon of wanderers.
You would do better considering the incarnations of wanderers such as
the one known as Thomas, the one known as Benjamin.
26.16 QUESTIONER I am assuming you mean Thomas Edison and Benjamin
Franklin?
R A This is incorrect. We were intending to convey the sound vibration
complex, Thomas Jefferson. The other, correct.
232 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
26.17 QUESTIONER Thank you. Can you tell me where the entity that used
Lincoln—Abraham’s—body, what density he came from and where?
R A I am Ra. This entity was fourth-vibration.
26.18 QUESTIONER I assume positive?
R A That is correct.
26.19 QUESTIONER Was his assassination in any way influenced by Orion or any
other negative force?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
26.20 QUESTIONER Thank you. In the recent past of the last thirty to forty years
the UFO phenomena has become known to our population. What was
the original reason for— I know there’ve been UFOs throughout history,
but what was the original reason for the increase in what we call UFO
activity say in the past forty years?
R A I am Ra. Information which Confederation sources had offered to
your entity, Albert [Einstein], became perverted, and instruments of
destruction began to be created, examples of this being the Manhattan
Project and its product.
Information offered through wanderer, sound vibration, Nikola [Tesla],
also being experimented with for potential destruction: example, your socalled Philadelphia Experiment.
Thus, we felt a strong need to involve our thought-forms in whatever way
we of the Confederation could be of service in order to balance these
distortions of information meant to aid your planetary sphere.
26.21 QUESTIONER Then what you did, I am assuming, then, is to create an air
of mystery with the UFO phenomena, as we call it, and then by telepathy
send many messages that could be either accepted or rejected under
the . . . following, of course, the Law of One, so that the population
would start thinking seriously about the consequences of what they were
doing. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is partially correct. There are other services we may
perform. Firstly, the integration of souls or spirits, if you will, in the event
of use of these nuclear devices in your space/time continuum. This the
Confederation has already done.
SESSION 26 233
26.22 QUESTIONER I don’t fully understand what you mean by that. Could you
expand a little bit?
R A I am Ra. The use of intelligent energy transforming matter into
energy is of such a nature among these weapons that the transition from
space/time third density to time/space third density, or what you may call
your heaven worlds, is interrupted in many cases.
Therefore, we are offering ourselves as those who continue the integration
of soul, or spirit complex, during transition from space/time to
time/space.
26.23 QUESTIONER Could you please give me an example from, let us say,
Hiroshima or Nagasaki of how this is done?
R A I am Ra. Those who were destroyed, not by radiation, but by the
trauma of the energy release, found not only the body/mind/spirit
complex made unviable, but also a disarrangement of that unique
vibratory complex you have called the spirit complex, which we
understand as a mind/body/spirit complex, to be completely disarranged
without possibility of re-integration. This would be the loss to the
Creator of part of the Creator, and thus we were given permission not to
stop the events, but to ensure the survival of the, shall we say,
disembodied mind/body/spirit complex. This we did in those events
which you mention, losing no spirit, or portion, or holograph, or
microcosm of the macrocosmic Infinite One.
26.24 QUESTIONER Could you please make the instrument cough, and then tell
me just vaguely how you accomplished this?
R A [Cough.] I am Ra. This is accomplished through our understanding of
dimensional fields of energy. The higher, or more dense, energy field will
control the less dense.
26.25 QUESTIONER But then, in general then, you’re saying that if we . . . you
will allow Earth, the population of this planet, to have a nuclear war and
many deaths from that war, but you will be able to create a condition
where these deaths will be no more traumatic, shall I say, with respect to
entrance to the heaven world, or astral world, or whatever we call it, than
death by a bullet or normal means of dying of old age. Is this correct?
234 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. It would be more traumatic. However, the
entity would remain an entity.
26.26 QUESTIONER Can you tell me the condition of the entities who were, shall
I say, killed in Nagasaki and Hiroshima. At this time, what is their
condition?
R A I am Ra. They of this trauma have not yet fully begun the healing
process. They are being helped as much as is possible.
26.27 QUESTIONER When the healing process is complete with these entities, will
this experience of the death due to the nuclear bomb cause them to be,
shall we say, regressed in their climb toward the fourth density?
R A I am Ra. Such actions as nuclear destruction affect the entire planet.
There are no differences at this level of destruction, and the planet will
need to be healed.
26.28 QUESTIONER I was thinking specifically if an entity was in Hiroshima or
Nagasaki at that time and he was reaching harvestability at the end of our
cycle, would this death by nuclear bomb possibly create such trauma that
he would not be able to be harvestable at the end of the cycle? That was
specifically my question.
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. Once the healing has taken place the
harvest may go forth unimpeded. However, the entire planet will undergo
healing for this action, no distinction being made betwixt victim and
aggressor, this due to damage done to the planet.
26.29 QUESTIONER Could you please make the instrument cough? And—
R A [Cough.]
26.30 QUESTIONER And then, can you describe the mechanism of the planetary
healing?
R A I am Ra. Healing is a process of acceptance, forgiveness, and, if
possible, restitution. The restitution not being available in time/space,
there are many among your peoples now attempting restitution while in
the physical.
26.31 QUESTIONER How do these people attempt this restitution in the physical?
SESSION 26 235
R A I am Ra. These attempt feelings of love towards the planetary sphere,
and comfort and healing of the scars, and the imbalances of these actions.
26.32 QUESTIONER Then as the UFO phenomena was made obvious to many of
the population, many groups of people reported contact; many groups of
people reported telepathic communication with UFO entities and many
recorded the results of what they considered telepathic communication.
Was the Confederation, shall we say, oriented to impressing telepathic
communication on groups that became interested in UFOs?
R A I am Ra. This is correct although some of our members have removed
themselves from the time/space using thought-form projections into your
space/time and have chosen, from time to time, with permission of the
Council, to appear in your skies without landing.
26.33 QUESTIONE R Then are all of the landings that have occurred—except for
the landing when Eisenhower was contacted—are all of those landings of
the Orion group or similar type groups?
R A I am Ra. Except for isolated instances of those of, shall we say, no
affiliation, this is correct.
26.34 QUESTIONER Is it necessary in each case for the entity who is contacted in
one of these landings to be calling the Orion group, or do some of these
entities come in contact with the Orion group even though they are not
calling that group?
R A I am Ra. You must plumb the depths of fourth-density negative
understanding. This is difficult for you. Once having reached thirddensity space/time continuum through your so-called windows, these
crusaders may plunder as they will, the results completely a function of
the polarity of the, shall we say, witness, subject, or victim.
This is due to the sincere belief of fourth-density negative that to love self
is to love all. Each other-self which is thus either taught or enslaved thus
has a teacher which teaches love of self. Exposed to this teaching, it is
intended that there be brought to fruition an harvest of fourth-density
negative, or self-serving mind/body/spirit complexes.1
 1 At this point in the original publications Don inserted the text from 53.6–17. In so
doing he hoped to give a more balanced picture of “close encounters” with both
positive and negative UFOs. Don felt that readers may get an incomplete, even 
236 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
26.35 QUESTIONER Could you make the instrument cough, please?
R A [Cough.]
26.36 QUESTIONER Then I am assuming all of the UFO groups who were getting
telepathic contact from the Confederation were, shall we say, highpriority targets for the Orion crusaders, and I would assume that a large
percentage of them were, shall we say, had their information polluted
then.
Can you tell me, do you have any idea what percentage of these groups
were heavily polluted by the Orion information, and if any of them were
able to remain purely a Confederation channel?
R A I am Ra. To give you this information would be to infringe upon the
free will, or confusion, of some living. We can only ask each group to
consider the relative effect of philosophy and your so-called specific
information. It is not the specificity of the information which attracts
negative influences; it is the importance placed upon it.
This is why we iterate quite often, when asked for specific information,
that it pales to insignificance, just as the grass withers and dies while the
love and the light of the One Infinite Creator redounds to the very
infinite realms of creation forever and ever, creating and creating itself in
perpetuity.
Why, then, be concerned with the grass that blooms, withers, and dies in
its season only to grow once again due to the infinite love and light of the
One Creator? This is the message we bring. Each entity is only
superficially that which blooms and dies. In the deeper sense, there is no
end to beingness.
26.37 QUESTIONER Thank you very much. Could you please make the
instrument cough?
R A [Cough.]
26.38 QUESTIONER As you have stated before, it is a strait and narrow path.
There are many distractions.
I plan to create an introduction, shall I say, to the Law of One, traveling

distorted picture from session 26 without the complementary information gained
in session 53.
SESSION 26 237
through and hitting the high points of this 75,000 year cycle, possibly a
few questions into the general future. After this introduction to the Law
of One, as I call it, I would like to get directly to the main work, which is
creating an understanding that can be disseminated to those who would
ask for it—and only to those who would ask for it—for an understanding
that can allow them to greatly accelerate their evolution. I am very
appreciative and feel it a great honor and privilege to be doing this and
hope that we can accomplish this next phase.
I have a question that the instrument has asked that I would like to ask
for the instrument. She says, “You speak of various types of energy
blockages and transfers, positive and negative, that may take place due to
participation in our sexual reproductive complex of actions.” She states,
“Please explain these blockages and energy transfers with emphasis upon
what an individual seeking to be in accordance with the Law of One may
positively do in this area.” Is it possible for you to answer this question?
R A I am Ra. It is partially possible, given the background we have laid.
This is properly a more advanced question. Due to the specificity of the
question we may give general answer.
The first energy transfer is red ray. It is a random transfer having to do
only with your reproductive system.
The orange- and the yellow-ray attempts to have sexual intercourse create,
firstly, a blockage if only one entity vibrates in this area, thus causing the
entity vibrating sexually in this area to have a never-ending appetite for
this activity. What these vibratory levels are seeking is green-ray activity.
There is the possibility of orange- or yellow-ray energy transfer; this being
polarizing towards the negative: one being seen as object rather than
other-self, the other seeing itself as plunderer, or master, of the situation.
In third2 ray there are two possibilities. Firstly, if both vibrate in third ray,
there will be a mutually strengthening energy transfer. The negative or
female, as you call it, drawing the energy from the roots of the beingness
up through the energy centers, thus being physically revitalized; the
positive, or male, polarity, as it is deemed in your illusion, finding in this
energy transfer an inspiration which satisfies and feeds the spirit portion
of the body/mind/spirit complex; thus both being polarized and releasing
 2 This should be fourth or green. Don and Ra corrected the error in session 32.3–4.
238 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
the excess of that which each has in abundance by nature of intelligent
energy, that is, negative/intuitive, positive/physical energies as you may
call them—this energy transfer being blocked only if one or both entities
have fear of possession, of being possessed, of desiring possession, or
desiring being possessed.
The other green-ray possibility is that of one entity offering green-ray
energy, the other not offering energy of the universal love energy, this
resulting in a blockage of energy for the one not green ray, thus increasing
frustration or appetite; the green-ray being polarizing slightly towards
service to others.
The blue-ray energy transfer is somewhat rare among your people at this
time but is of great aid due to energy transfers involved in becoming able
to express the self without reservation or fear.
The indigo-ray transfer is extremely rare among your people. This is the
sacramental portion of the body complex whereby contact may be made
through the violet ray with intelligent infinity. No blockages may occur at
these latter two levels due to the fact that if both entities are not ready for
this energy, it is not visible, and neither transfer nor blockage may take
place. It is as though the distributor were removed from a powerful
engine.
This instrument was able, as an example of this working, to baffle the
Orion group during [tape blank] experiences, as you call this substance,
due to the fact that it effectively completely opened other-self to thirdray—we correct this instrument, it is growing low in vital energy—greenray energy and partially open other-self to blue-ray interaction.3
May we ask if you have any queries before we close?
26.39 QUESTIONER If you would please make the instrument cough, I will ask
one—two quick things.
R A [Cough.]
26.40 QUESTIONER The instrument asks, “How long do the debilitative effects
that I am experiencing from the use of LSD last, and is there anything
that we can do to make the instrument more comfortable?”
 3 Ra is referring to the instrument’s experience described in 18.3 and elsewhere.
SESSION 26 239
R A I am Ra. Firstly, the period of weakness of bodily complex is
approximately three of your lunar cycles, the first ingestion causing
approximately one of your lunar cycles; the second having a cumulative or
doubling effect.
Secondly, this instrument is well. You are most conscientious.
I am Ra. I leave you, my friends, in the love and the light of the One
Infinite Creator. Go forth, then, merry and glad and rejoicing in the
power and the peace of the One Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 27
FEBRUARY 21, 1981
27.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the One Infinite
Creator. I communicate now.
27.1 QUESTIONER This session I thought we would start Book II of The Law of
One,
1 which will focus on what we consider to be the only important
aspect of our being.
However, Jim has felt the obligation to ask two questions that were asked
of him by Paul Shockley, and I will ask those two first, in case you are
able to answer them before we really get started. First question is: Paul
Shockley is presenting channeling—correction, Paul Shockley is presently
channeling the same source which Edgar Cayce channeled, and Paul has
received information that he took part in the design and construction of
the Egyptian pyramids. Can you tell us what his role was in that effort?
R A I am Ra. This was in your space/time continuum two periods and two
lifetimes. The first of a physical nature working with Confederation
entities in what you know of as Atlantis, this approximately thirteen
thousand [13,000] of your years ago. This memory, shall we say, being
integrated into the unconscious of the mind/body/spirit complex of this
entity due to its extreme desire to remember the service of healing and
polarization possible by the mechanisms of the crystal and the charged
healer.
The second experience being approximately one thousand [1,000] of your
years later during which experience this entity prepared, in some part, the
consciousness of the people of what you now call Egypt, that they were
able to offer the calling that enabled those of our social memory complex
to walk among your peoples. During this life experience this entity was of
a priest and teaching nature and succeeded in remembering in semidistorted form the learn/teachings of the Atlantean pyramidal experiences.
Thus, this entity became a builder of the archetypal thought of the Law of
One with distortion towards healing, which aided our people in bringing
this through into a physical manifestation at what you would call a later
period in your time measurement.
 1 See footnote on 13.3 for information regarding the original books.
SESSION 27 241
27.2 QUESTIONER The second question is: Paul has also received information
that mentions that there were other beings aiding in the construction of
the pyramids who were not fully materialized in the third density. They
were materialized from the waist up to their heads, but were not
materialized from the waist down to their feet. Did such entities exist in
the construction of the pyramids, and who were they?
R A I am Ra. Consider, if you will, the intelligent infinity present in the
absorption of livingness and beingness as it becomes codified into
intelligent energy due to the thought impressions of those assisting the
living stone into a new shape of beingness. The release and use of
intelligent infinity for a brief period begins to absorb all the consecutive,
or interlocking, dimensions, thus offering brief glimpses of those
projecting to the material their thought. These beings thus beginning to
materialize but not remaining visible. These beings were the thoughtform, or third-density-visible, manifestation of our social memory
complex as we offered contact from our intelligent infinity to the
intelligent infinity of the stone.
27.3 QUESTIONER Thank you very much. I will now proceed with the process
of starting the second book of The Law of One.
2 This, I will assume, will
be a much more difficult task than the first book because we want to
focus on things that are not transient, and as questioner I may have
difficulty at times.
When I do have this difficulty, I may fall back on some partially transient
questions simply because I will not be able to formulate what I really need
to formulate, and I apologize for this. But I will try my best to stay on the
track and eliminate things of no value from the book if they do occur
during my questioning.3
The statement I will make to begin with I have written. It is: Most
entities in this density focus their minds on some transient condition or
activity with little regard to its value as a tool, or an aid, to their growth
and understanding of the true, or undistorted, essence of the creation of
which they are an integral part.
 2 See footnote on 13.3 for information regarding the original books.
3 Any eliminated questions and answers have been restored.
242 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
We will attempt, by starting at the beginning of creation, to establish an
overview of ourselves in the creation, thereby arriving at a more informed
point of inspection of what we consider to be reality. It is hoped that this
process will allow us to participate more effectively in the process of
evolution.
I would like to start with definitions of words that we have been using
that possibly we have not—and possibly cannot—totally understand, but
since the first words that we use are intelligent infinity, I would like for
you to define each of these words and give me the definition of their
combination.
R A I am Ra. Your vibrations of mind complex indicate a query. However,
your vibrational sound complex indicate a preference. Please restate.
27.4 QUESTIONER Would you define the word intelligent in the concept of
intelligent infinity?
R A I am Ra. We shall address the entire spectrum of this question before
defining as requested. Your language, using vibrational sound complexes,
can be at best an approximation of that which is closer to an
understanding, if you will, of the nature of conscious thought.
Perceptions are not the same as sound vibration complexes, and the
attempt to define will therefore be a frustrating one for you, although we
are happy to aid you within the limits of your sound vibration complexes.
To define intelligent apart from infinity is difficult, for these two
vibration complexes equal one concept. It is much like attempting to
divide your sound vibration concept, faith, into two parts. We shall
attempt to aid you, however.
27.5 QUESTIONE R It is not necessary to divide it. The definition of intelligent
infinity as one part is sufficient. Could you please now define intelligent
infinity?
R A I am Ra. This is exponentially simpler and less confusing. There is
unity. This unity is all that there is. This unity has a potential and kinetic.
The potential is intelligent infinity. Tapping this potential will yield
work. This work has been called by us, intelligent energy.
The nature of this work is dependent upon the particular distortion of
Free Will which, in turn, is the nature of a particular intelligent energy, or
kinetic focus, of the potential of unity, or that which is all.
SESSION 27 243
27.6 QUESTIONER I’d like to expand a little on the concept of work. In
Newtonian physics the concept of work is what we call a force which
moves through space. It’s the product of force and distance as we measure
it. I’m assuming that the work of which you speak is a much broader
term including possibly work in consciousness. Am I correct?
R A I am Ra. As we use this term it is universal in application. Intelligent
infinity has a rhythm, or flow, as of a giant heart beginning with the
Central Sun, as you would think or conceive of this; the presence of the
flow inevitable as a tide of beingness without polarity, without finity; the
vast and silent all beating outward, outward, focusing outward and
inward until the focuses are complete. The intelligence or consciousness
of foci have reached a state where their, shall we say, spiritual nature or
mass calls them inward, inward, inward until all is coalesced. This is the
rhythm of reality as you spoke.
27.7 QUESTIONER Now I think I have extracted an important point from this in
that in intelligent infinity we have work without polarity, or a potential
difference does not have to exist. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. There is no difference, potential or kinetic, in unity. The
basic rhythms of intelligent infinity are totally without distortion of any
kind. The rhythms are clothed in mystery, for they are being itself. From
this undistorted unity, however, appears a potential in relation to
intelligent energy.
In this way you may observe the term to be somewhat two-sided: One use
of the term, that being as the undistorted unity, being without any kinetic
or potential side. The other application of this term, which we use
undifferentiatedly for lack of other term, in the sense of the vast potential
tapped into by foci or focuses of [intelligent] energy.
4
27.8 QUESTIONER Now, I understand that the first distortion of intelligent
infinity is the distortion of what we call Free Will. Can you give me a
definition of this distortion?
 4 This statement has been edited to add clarity to what we believe to be Ra’s
intended meaning. The original statement reads: “The other application of this
term, which we use undifferentiatedly for lack of other term, in the sense of the
vast potential tapped into by foci or focuses of energy we call intelligent energy.”
244 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. In this distortion of the Law of One it is recognized that the
Creator will know Itself.
27.9 QUESTIONER Then am I correct then in assuming that the Creator will
know Itself—the Creator then grants for this knowing the concept of
freedom, total freedom of choice in the ways of knowing? Am I correct?
R A I am Ra. This is quite correct.
27.10 QUESTIONER This then being the first distortion of the Law of One, which
I am assuming is the Law of Intelligent Infinity, from all other—
correction, all other distortions which are the total experience of the
creation spring from this. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is both correct and incorrect. In your illusion all
experience springs from the Law of Free Will, or the Way of Confusion.
In another sense, which we are learning, the experiences are this
distortion.
27.11 QUESTIONER I will have to think about that and ask questions on it in the
next session, so I will go on to what you have given me as the Second
Distortion which is the distortion of Love. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
27.12 QUESTIONER I would like for you to define Love in the sense . . . in its
sense as the Second Distortion.
R A I am Ra. This must be defined against the background of intelligent
infinity, or unity, or the One Creator, with the primal distortion of Free
Will. The term Love then may be seen as the focus, the choice of attack,
the type of energy of an extremely, shall we say, high order which causes
intelligent energy to be formed from the potential of intelligent infinity in
just such and such a way. This then may be seen to be an object rather
than an activity by some of your peoples, and the principle of this
extremely strong energy focus being worshiped as the Creator instead of
unity, or oneness, from which all Loves emanate.
27.13 QUESTIONER Is Love . . . is there a manifestation of Love that we could call
vibration?
R A I am Ra. Again we reach semantic difficulties. The vibration, or
density, of love, or understanding, is not a term used in the same sense as 
SESSION 27 245
the Second Distortion, Love; the distortion Love being the great activator
and primal co-Creator of various creations using intelligent infinity; the
vibration love being that density in which those who have learned to do
an activity called “loving” without significant distortion, then seek the
Ways of Light or Wisdom.
Thus in vibratory sense love comes into light. In the sense of the activity
of unity in its free will, love uses light and has the power to direct light in
its distortions. Thus vibratory complexes recapitulate in reverse the
creation in its unity, thus showing the rhythm, or flow, of the great
heartbeat, if you will use this analogy.
27.14 QUESTIONE R I will make a statement that I have extracted from the physics
of Dewey Larson which may or may not be close to what we are trying to
explain. Larson says that all is motion, which we can take as vibration;
and that vibration, which is pure vibration and is not physical in any way,
or in any form, or in any density, that vibration, by . . . first product of
that vibration is what we call the photon, particle of light.
I was trying to make an analogy between this physical solution and the
concept of love and light. Is this close to the concept of Love creating
Light, or not?
R A I am Ra. You are correct.
27.15 QUESTIONER Then I will expand a bit more on this concept. We have the
infinite vibration of Love which can occur, I am assuming, at varying
frequencies, if this has a meaning in this. I would assume that it begins at
one basic frequency.
Does this have any meaning? Am I making sense? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. Each Love, as you term the prime movers, comes from one
frequency, if you wish to use this term. This frequency is unity. We
would perhaps liken it rather to a strength than a frequency, this strength
being infinite, the finite qualities being chosen by the particular nature of
this primal movement.
27.16 QUESTIONER Then this vibration which is, for lack of better
understanding, which we would call pure motion; it is pure Love. It is. . .
it is not . . . there is nothing that is yet condensed, shall we say, to form
any type, or density, of illusion. This Love then creates, by this process of 
246 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
vibration, a photon, as we call it, which is the basic particle of light. This
photon then, by added vibrations and rotations, further condenses into
particles of the densities, the various densities that we experience. Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
27.17 QUESTIONER Now, this— Then light which forms the densities has what
we call color, and this color is divided into seven categories of color. Can
you tell me, is there a reason or an explanation for these categories of
color? Can you tell me something about that?
R A I am Ra. This will be the last complete question of this session as this
instrument is low on vital energy. We will answer briefly, and then you
may question further in consequent sessions.
The nature of the vibratory patterns of your universe is dependent upon
the configurations placed upon the original material, or Light, by the
focus, or Love, using Its intelligent energy to create a certain pattern of
illusions, or densities, in order to satisfy Its own intelligent estimate of a
method of knowing Itself. Thus the colors, as you call them, are as strait,
or narrow, or necessary as is possible to express, given the will of Love.
There is further information which we shall be happy to share by
answering your questions. However, we do not wish to deplete this
instrument. Is there a short query necessary before we leave?
27.18 QUESTIONER The only thing I need to know is, is there is anything we can
do to make the instrument more comfortable or help her or the contact?
R A I am Ra. This instrument is slightly uncomfortable. Perhaps a simpler
configuration of the body would be appropriate given the instrument’s
improving physical complex condition.
I am Ra. You are conscientious in your endeavors. We shall be with you.
We leave you now in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. Rejoice, therefore, in the power and the peace of the One
Infinite Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 28
FEBRUARY 22, 1981
28.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator. I
communicate now.
28.1 QUESTIONER I may be backtracking a little bit and make a few false starts
today because I think we are at possibly the most important part of what
we are doing in trying to make it apparent, through questioning, how
everything is one, and how it comes from one intelligent infinity. This is
difficult for me to do, so please bear with my errors in questioning.
The concept that I have right now of the process, using both what you
have told me and some of Dewey Larson’s material having to do with the
physics of the process— I have the concept that intelligent infinity
expands outward from all locations everywhere. It expands outward in
every direction uniformly like the surface of a balloon or a bubble,
expanding outward from every point everywhere. It expands outward at
what’s called unit velocity, or the velocity of light. This is Larson’s idea of
the progression of what he calls space/time. Is this concept correct?
R A I am Ra. This concept is incorrect, as is any concept of the one
intelligent infinity. This concept is correct in the context of one particular
Logos, or Love, or focus of this Creator which has chosen Its, shall we say,
natural laws and ways of expressing them mathematically and otherwise.
The one undifferentiated intelligent infinity, unpolarized, full and whole,
is the macrocosm of the mystery-clad being. We are messengers of the
Law of One. Unity, at this approximation of understanding, cannot be
specified by any physics but only be activated, or potentiated, intelligent
infinity due to the catalyst of free will. This may be difficult to accept.
However, the understandings we have to share begin and end in mystery.
28.2 QUESTIONER Well, we had yesterday arrived at a point where we were
considering colors of light. You said that “the nature of the vibratory
patterns of your universe is dependent upon the configurations placed on
the original material, or light, by the focus of Love using Its intelligent
energy to create a certain pattern of . . . of illusions or densities.” Then
after this material you said that there’s further information which you’d 
248 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
be happy to share, but we ran out of time. Could you complete the
further information on that?
R A I am Ra. In discussing this information we then, shall we say, snap
back into the particular methods of understanding or seeing that which is
that the one, sound vibration complex, Dewey, offers; this being correct
for the second meaning of intelligent infinity: the potential which then
through catalyst forms the kinetic.
This information is a natural progression of inspection of the kinetic
shape of your environment. You may understand each color, or ray, as
being, as we had said, a very specific and accurate apportion of intelligent
energy’s representation of intelligent infinity, each ray having been
previously inspected in other regards.1
This information may be of aid here. We speak now nonspecifically to
increase the depth of your conceptualization of the nature of what is. The
universe in which you live is recapitulation, in each part, of intelligent
infinity. Thus you will see the same patterns repeated in physical and
metaphysical areas; the rays or apportions of light being, as you surmise,
those areas of what you may call the physical illusion which rotate,
vibrate, or are of a nature that may be, shall we say, counted, or
categorized, in rotation manner in space/time as described by the one
known as Dewey; some substances having various of the rays in a physical
manifestation visible to the eye, this being apparent in the nature of your
crystallized minerals which you count as precious, the ruby being red and
so forth.
28.3 QUESTIONER This Light that occurred as a consequence of vibration,
which is a consequence of Love. I am going to ask if that statement is
right. Is that correct?
R A I am Ra. This statement is correct.
28.4 QUESTIONER OK. This light then can condense into material as we know
it in our density, into all of our chemical elements because of rotations of
the vibration at quantized intervals, or units, of angular velocity. Is this
correct?
 1 In this context, apportion may be defined as “to divide and assign according to a
plan.”
SESSION 28 249
R A I am Ra. This is quite correct.
28.5 QUESTIONER Thank you. I am wondering, what is the catalyst, or the
activator, of the rotation? What causes the rotation so that the light
condenses into our physical or chemical elements?
R A I am Ra. It is necessary to consider the enabling function of the focus
known as Love. This energy is of an ordering nature. It orders in a
cumulative way from greater to lesser so that when Its universe, as you
may call it, is complete, the manner of development of each detail is
inherent in the living light, and thus will develop in such and such a way;
your own universe having been well-studied in an empirical fashion by
those you call your scientists, and having been understood, or visualized,
shall we say, with greater accuracy by the understandings, or
visualizations, of the one known as Dewey.
28.6 QUESTIONER When does individualization, or the individualized portion
of consciousness, come into play? How does this individualization occur,
and at what point does individualized consciousness take over in working
on the basic light?
R A I am Ra. You remain carefully in the area of creation itself. In this
process we must further confuse you by stating that the process by which
Free Will acts upon potential intelligent infinity to become focused
intelligent energy takes place without the space/time of which you are so
aware, as it is your continuum experience.
The experience, or existence, of space/time comes into being after the
individuation process of Logos, or Love, has been completed and the
physical universe, as you would call it, has coalesced or begun to draw
inward while moving outward to the extent that that which you call your
sun bodies have, in their turn, created timeless chaos coalescing into what
you call planets, these vortices of intelligent energy spending a large
amount of what you would call first density in a timeless state, the
space/time realization being one of the learn/teachings of this density of
beingness.
Thus we have difficulty answering your questions with regard to time and
space and their relationship to the, what you would call, original creation
which is not a part of space/time as you can understand it.
250 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
28.7 QUESTIONER Thank you. Does a unit of consciousness, an individualized
unit of consciousness, create, say, a unit of the creation? I will give an
example.
Would one individualized consciousness create one galaxy of stars, the
type that has many millions of stars in it. Does this happen?
R A I am Ra. This can happen. The possibilities are infinite. Thus a Logos
may create what you call a star system, or it may be the Logos creating
billions of star systems. This is the cause of the confusion in the term
galaxy, for there are many different Logos entities or creations, and we
would call each, using your sound vibration complexes, a galaxy.
28.8 QUESTIONER Let’s take as an example the planet that we are on now, and
tell me how much of the creation was created by the same Logos that
created this planet?
R A I am Ra. This planetary Logos is a strong Logos creating
approximately two hundred fifty billion [250,000,000,000] of your star
systems for Its creation. The, shall we say, laws or physical ways of this
creation will remain, therefore, constant.
28.9 QUESTIONER Then what you’re saying is that the lenticular star system,
which we call a galaxy, that we find ourself in, with approximately 250
billion other suns like our own, was created by a single Logos. Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
28.10 QUESTIONER Now, since there are many individualized portions of
consciousness in this lenticular galaxy, did this Logos then subdivide into
more individualization of consciousness to create these consciousnesses or
divide into these consciousnesses?
R A I am Ra. You are perceptive. This is also correct, although an
apparent paradox.
28.11 QUESTIONER Could you tell me what you mean by an apparent paradox?
R A I am Ra. It would seem that if one Logos creates the intelligent energy
ways for a large system, there would not be the necessity or possibility of
the further sub-Logos differentiation. However, within limits, this is
precisely the case, and it is perceptive that this has been seen.
SESSION 28 251
28.12 QUESTIONER Thank you. Could you please make the instrument cough?
R A [Cough.]
28.13 QUESTIONER Thank you. Do all of the individualized portions of the
Logos, then, in our— I’ll call the lenticular galaxy that we are in, 250
billion suns, or stars, I will call that the major galaxy just so we will not
get mixed up in our terms.
Does all the consciousness, then, in this individualized form that goes
into what we are calling the major galaxy start out and go through all of
the densities in order, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven or—then to
eighth—or is there, shall I say, some who start higher up the rank and go
in a . . . so that there is always a mixture of intelligent consciousness in
the galaxy?
R A I am Ra. The latter is more nearly correct. In each beginning, there is
the beginning from infinite strength. Free Will acts as a catalyst. Beings
begin to form the universes. Consciousness then begins to have the
potential to experience. The potentials of experience are created as a part
of intelligent energy and are fixed before experience begins.
However, there is always, due to Free Will acting infinitely upon the
creation, a great variation in initial responses to intelligent energy’s
potential. Thus almost immediately the foundations of the, shall we call
it, hierarchical nature of beings begins to manifest as some portions of
consciousness, or awareness, learn through experience in a much more
efficient manner.
28.14 QUESTIONER Is there any reason for some portions being much more
efficient in learning?
R A I am Ra. Is there any reason for some to learn more quickly than
others? Look, if you wish, to the function of the will . . . the, shall we say,
attraction to the upward spiraling line of light.
28.15 QUESTIONER Now, as the major galaxy is created, and I am assuming all of
its densities . . . I am assuming all— There are eight densities created
when this major galaxy is created. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is basically correct. However, it is well to perceive that
the eighth density functions also as the beginning density, or first
density—in its latter stages—of the next octave of densities.
252 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
28.16 QUESTIONER Are you saying, then, there are an infinite number of octaves
of densities one through eight?
R A I am Ra. We wish to establish that we are truly humble messengers of
the Law of One. We can speak to you of our experiences and our
understandings and teach/learn in limited ways. However, we cannot
speak in firm knowledge of all the creations. We know only that they are
infinite. We assume an infinite number of octaves.
However, it has been impressed upon us by our own teachers that there is
a mystery-clad unity of creation in which all consciousness periodically
coalesces and, again, begins. Thus we can only say we assume an infinite
progression, though we understand it to be cyclical in nature and, as we
have said, clad in mystery.
28.17 QUESTIONER Thank you. Would you please make the instrument cough
again?
R A [Cough.]
28.18 QUESTIO NER Thank you. When this major galaxy is formed by the Logos,
polarity then exists in a sense that we have electrical polarity, a
gravitational effect that probably isn’t polarity, I’m . . . I’ll have to ask
that question. We do have electrical polarity existing at that time. Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. I accept this as correct with the stipulation that what you
term electrical be understood as not only the one, Larson, stipulated its
meaning but also in what you would call the metaphysical sense.
28.19 Q U ESTIONER Are you saying then that we not only have a polarity of
electrical charge but also a polarity in consciousness at that time?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. All is potentially available from the
beginning of your physical space/time—it then being the function of
consciousness complexes to begin to use the physical materials to gain
experience, to then polarize, in a metaphysical sense. The potentials for
this are not created by the experiencer but by intelligent energy.
This will be the last full question of this session due to our desire to foster
this instrument as it slowly regains physical complex energy. May we ask
if you have one or two questions we may answer shortly before we close?
28.20 QUESTIONER I am assuming that the process of creation, then, after the 
SESSION 28 253
original creation of the major galaxy, is continued by the further
individualization of consciousness of the Logos so that there are many,
many portions of individualized consciousness then creating further
items, you might say, for experience all over the galaxy. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct, for within the, shall we say, guidelines, or
ways, of the Logos, the sub-Logos may find various means of
differentiating experiences without removing or adding to these ways.
28.21 QUESTIONER Thank you. And since we are out of time I’ll just ask if there
is anything that we can do to make the instrument more comfortable or
help the contact?
R A I am Ra. This instrument is well adjusted. You are conscientious.
I am Ra. I leave you, my friends, in the love and the light of the One
Infinite Creator. Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power and the peace of
the One Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 29
FEBRUARY 23, 1981
29.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
29.1 QUESTIONER Is our sun (this planetary system) as we know it a sub-Logos,
or the physical manifestation of a sub-Logos?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
29.2 QUESTIONER Then I am assuming this sub-Logos created this planetary
system in all of its densities. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. The sub-Logos of your solar entity
differentiated some experiential components within the patterns of
intelligent energy set in motion by the Logos, which created the basic
conditions and vibratory rates consistent throughout your, what you have
called, major galaxy.
29.3 QUESTIONER Then is this sub-Logos which is our sun the same sub-Logos
but just manifesting in different parts through the galaxy which is . . . is it
all the stars in this galaxy?
R A I am Ra. Please restate.
29.4 QUESTIONER What I’m saying is there are roughly 250 billion stars, or
suns, something like ours in this major galaxy. Are they all part of the
same sub-Logos?
R A I am Ra. They are all part of the same Logos. Your solar system, as
you would call it, is a manifestation, somewhat and slightly different, due
to the presence of a sub-Logos.
29.5 QUESTIONER Now, all of these— Let me be sure I’m right then. Then our
sun is a sub-Logos of the Logos that is the major galactic Logos. Correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
29.6 QUE STIONER Are there any sub-sub-Logos that are found in our planetary
system that are “sub” to our sun?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
SESSION 29 255
29.7 QUESTIONER Would you tell me what one of those— Would you give me
an example of one of those, I’ll call sub-sub-Logos?
RA I am Ra. One example is your mind/body/spirit complex.
29.8 QUESTIONER Then every entity that exists would be some type of sub- or
sub-sub-Logos. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct down to the limits of any observation, for the
entire creation is alive.
29.9 QUESTIONER Then the planet which we walk upon here would be some
form of sub-sub-Logos. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. A planetary entity is so named only as Logos if it is working
in harmonic fashion with entities, or mind/body complexes, upon its
surface or within its electromagnetic field.
29.10 QUESTIONER Okay. Do the sub-Logos, such as our sun, do any of them—
in our major galaxy—do they have a metaphysical polarity, shall we say,
positive or negative as we’ve been using the term?
R A I am Ra. As you use the term, this is not so. Entities through the level
of planetary have the strength of intelligent infinity through the use of
free will, going through the actions of beingness. The polarity is not,
thusly, as you understand polarity. It is only when the planetary sphere
begins harmonically interacting with mind/body complexes, and more
especially mind/body/spirit complexes, that planetary spheres take on
distortions due to the thought complexes of entities interacting with the
planetary entity.
The creation of the One Infinite Creator does not have the polarity you
speak of.
29.11 QUESTIONER Thank you. Yesterday you stated that planets in first density
are in a timeless state to begin with. Can you tell me how the effect we
appreciate as time comes into being?
R A I am Ra. We have just described to you the state of beingness of each
Logos. The process by which space/time comes into continuum form is a
function of the careful building, shall we say, of an entire, or whole, plan
of vibratory rates, densities, and potentials. When this plan has coalesced 
256 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
in the thought complexes of Love, then the physical manifestations begin
to appear; this first manifestation stage being awareness or consciousness.
At the point at which this coalescence is at the livingness or beingness
point—the point, or fountainhead, of beginning—space/time then begins
to unroll its scroll of livingness.
29.12 QUESTIONER As the Love creates the vibration— I will make this
statement first. Let me say, I believe that Love creates the vibration in
space/time in order to form the photon. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is essentially correct.
29.13 QUESTIONER Then the continued application of Love—I will assume this
is directed by a sub-Logos or a sub-sub-Logos—this continued
application of Love creates rotations of these vibrations which are in
discrete units of angular velocity. This then creates chemical elements in
our physical illusion and, I will assume, the elements in the other, or what
we would call nonphysical, or other densities in the illusion. Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. The Logos creates all densities. Your question was unclear.
However, we shall state the Logos does create both the space/time
densities and the accompanying time/space densities.
29.14 QUESTIONER What I am assuming is that the rotations, the quantized
incremental rotations of the vibrations, show up as the material of these
densities. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is essentially correct.
29.15 QUESTIONER Well, then because of these rotations there is an inward
motion of these particles which is opposite the direction of space/time
progression, the way I understand it, and this inward progression then is
seen by us as what we call gravity. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect.
29.16 QUES TIONER Can you tell me how the gravity comes about?
R A I am Ra. This that you speak of as gravity may be seen as the pressing
towards the inner light/love, the seeking towards the spiral line of light
which progresses towards the Creator. This is a manifestation of a
spiritual event or condition of livingness.
SESSION 29 257
29.17 QUESTIONER Now, gravity we know now on our moon is less than it is
upon our planet here. Is there a metaphysical principle behind this that
you could explain?
R A I am Ra. The metaphysical and physical are inseparable. Thus that of
which you spoke which attempts to explain this phenomenon is able to,
shall we say, calculate the gravitational force of most objects due to the
various physical aspects such as what you know of as mass. However, we
felt it was necessary to indicate the corresponding and equally important
metaphysical nature of gravity.
29.18 QUESTIONER I sometimes have difficulty in getting, you might say, a
foothold into what I am looking for in trying to seek out the metaphysical
principles, you might say, behind our physical illusion.
Could you give me an example of the amount of gravity in the third
density conditions at the surface of the planet Venus? Would it be greater
or less than Earth?
R A I am Ra. The gravity, shall we say, the attractive force which we also
describe as the pressing outward force towards the Creator, is greater
spiritually upon the entity you call Venus due to the greater degree of
success, shall we say, at seeking the Creator.
This point only becomes important when you consider that when all of
creation in its infinity has reached a spiritual gravitational mass of
sufficient nature, the entire creation infinitely coalesces, the light seeking
and finding its source, and thusly ending the creation, and beginning a
new creation—much as you consider the black hole, as you call it, with its
conditions of infinitely great mass at the zero point from which no light
may be seen, as it has been absorbed.
29.19 QUESTIONER Then the black hole would be a point . . . am I correct in
saying it would be a point at which the environmental material had
succeeded in uniting with unity or the Creator? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. The black hole which manifests third density is the physical
complex manifestation of this spiritual, or metaphysical, state. This is
correct.
29.20 QUESTIONER Thank you. Then when our planet Earth here gets fully into
fourth density, will there be a greater gravity?
258 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. There will be a greater spiritual gravity thus causing a denser
illusion.
29.21 QUESTIONER This denser illusion, then, I will assume would increase the
gravitational acceleration above the measured 32.2 feet per second
squared that we now experience. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. Your entities do not have the instrumentation to measure
spiritual gravity but only to observe a few of its extreme manifestations.
29.22 QUESTIONER This I know, that we can’t measure spiritual gravity, but I
was just wondering if the . . . the physical effect would be measurable as
an increase in the gravitational constant? That was my question.
R A I am Ra. The increase measurable by existing instrumentation would,
and will be, statistical in nature only and not significant.
29.23 QUESTIONER OK. Now, as the creation is formed, as the atoms form from
rotations of the vibration which is light, they coalesce in a certain manner
sometimes. They find distances, inter-atomic distances, from each other
at precise distance and produce a lattice structure which we call
crystalline.
I am guessing that because of the formation from intelligent energy of the
precise crystalline structure that it is possible, by some technique, to tap
intelligent energy and bring it into the physical illusion by working
through the crystalline structure. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct only insofar as the crystalline physical
structure is charged by a correspondingly crystallized, or regularized, or
balanced, mind/body/spirit complex.
29.24 QUESTIONER I don’t wish to get off on subjects of no importance or
subjects that don’t lead us to a better understanding of our mechanism of
growth, which lead us to things that are not transient, but it’s difficult
sometimes to see precisely what direction to go in. I would like to
investigate a little bit more this idea of crystals and how they are used.
I’m assuming then from what you said that in order to use the crystal to
tap intelligent energy, it is necessary to have a partially undistorted
mind/body/spirit complex. Is this satisfactory, or do you need— Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. This is specifically correct.
SESSION 29 259
29.25 QUESTIONER There must be a point at which the removal of distortion
reaches a minimum for use of the crystal in tapping intelligent energy. Is
this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct only if it is understood, shall we say, that each
mind/body/spirit complex has an unique such point.
29.26 QUESTIONER Can you tell me why each mind/body/spirit complex has this
unique point of distortion-ridding?
R A I am Ra. Each mind/body/spirit complex is an unique portion of the
One Creator.
29.27 QUESTIONER Then you are saying that there is no single level of, shall we
say, purity required to tap intelligent energy through crystals, but there
can be a wide variation in the amount of distortion that an entity may
have. But each entity has to reach his particular point of, what I might
call, energizing the ability. Is this right?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. The necessity is for the mind/body/spirit
complex to be of a certain balance, this balance thus enabling it to reach a
set level of lack of distortion. The critical difficulties are unique for each
mind/body/spirit complex due to the experiential distillations which, in
total, are the, shall we say, violet-ray beingness of each such entity.
This balance is what is necessary for work to be done in seeking the
gateway to intelligent infinity through the use of crystals or through any
other use. No two mind/body/spirit crystallized natures are the same. The
distortion requirements, vibrationally speaking, are set.
29.28 QUESTIONER I see. Then if you are able to read the violet ray of an entity,
to see that ray, is it possible then to immediately determine whether the
entity could use crystals to tap intelligent energy?
R A I am Ra. It is possible for one of fifth density or above to do this.
29.29 QUESTIONER Is it possible for you to tell me how a crystal is used by an
entity who has satisfactorily achieved necessary violet-ray qualification, I
will say, how it is possible for the entity to use the crystal or how he
should use the crystal?
260 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
RA I am Ra. The gateway to intelligent infinity is born of, shall we say,
the sympathetic vibration, in balanced state, accompanying the will to
serve, the will to seek.
29.30 QUESTIONER But can you tell me precisely what the entity would do with
the crystal to use it for the purpose of seeking the intelligent infinity?
R A I am Ra. The use of the crystal in physical manifestation is that use
wherein the entity of crystalline nature charges the regularized physical
crystal with this seeking, thus enabling it to vibrate harmonically, and also
become the catalyst, or gateway, whereby intelligent infinity may thus
become intelligent energy, this crystal serving as an analog of the violet
ray of mind/body/spirit in relatively undistorted form.
29.31 QUESTIONER Is it possible at all for you to instruct us in specific uses of
crystals?
R A I am Ra. It is possible. There are, we consider, things which are not
efficacious to tell you due to possible infringement upon your free will.
Entities of the Confederation have erred in this in the past. The uses of
the crystal, as you know, include the uses for healing, for power, and even
for the development of life-forms. We feel that it is unwise to offer
instruction at this time as your peoples have shown a tendency to use
peaceful sources of power for disharmonious reasons.
29.32 QUESTIONER I guess what we’d better get to then—now that we have
traced the path of creation at least down to the crystalline structure—
we’d better concentrate on the evolution of thought and its seeking path
to intelligent infinity.
We have created, in the major galaxy of the Logos, a very large number of
planets. As these planets develop, is it possible for you to give me an
example of various planetary developments, in what I would call a
metaphysical sense, having to do with the development of consciousness
and its polarities throughout the galaxy? In other words, I believe that
some of these planets develop quite rapidly into higher density planets
and some take longer times. Can you give me some idea of that
development?
R A I am Ra. This will be the final full query of this session.
The particular Logos of your major galaxy has used a large portion of Its
coalesced material to reflect the beingness of the Creator. In this way 
SESSION 29 261
there is much of your galactic system which does not have the progression
of which you speak but dwells spiritually as a portion of the Logos. Of
those entities upon which consciousness dwells there is, as you surmise, a
variety of time/space periods during which the higher densities of
experience are attained by consciousness.
Does this fulfill the requirements of your query?
29.33 QUESTIONER I’ll study it and possibly have something tomorrow since I
don’t want to overtire the instrument. The instrument had a question if
you have time for a short question, and I will read it.
The instrument does not desire to do physical healing work. She already
does spiritual balancing by hands. Can she read the private healing
material without doing physical healing? I am assuming that she means
can she read it without creating problems in her life pattern? She does not
wish to incur lessening of positive polarity. Can she read this material
under those conditions?
R A I am Ra. We shall speak shortly due to the fact that we are attempting
to conserve this instrument’s vital energies during the three-month period
of which we have spoken.
This entity has a[n] experiential history of healing on levels other than the
so-called physical. Thus it is acceptable that this material be read.
However, the exercise of fire shall never be practiced by this instrument,
as it is used in the stronger form for the physical healing.
Is there any short query further before we close?
29.34 QUESTIONER Is there anything that we can do to make the instrument
more comfortable or improve the contact?
R A I am Ra. You are conscientious. The entity is well aligned.
I am Ra. I leave you now in the love and the light of the One Infinite
Creator. Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the
One Infinite Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 30
FEBRUARY 24, 1981
30.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
30.1 QUESTIONER I am going to make a statement and then let you correct it if
I have made any errors. This is the statement: creation is a single entity,
or unity. If only a single entity exists, then the only concept of service is
service to self. If this single entity subdivides, then the concept of service
of one of its parts to the other part is born. From this concept springs the
equality of service to self, or to others.
It would seem that as the Logos subdivided, parts would select each
orientation. As individualized entities emerge in space/time then I would
assume that they have polarity. Is this statement correct?
R A I am Ra. This statement is quite perceptive and correct until the final
phrase in which we note that the polarities begin to be explored only at
the point when a third-density entity becomes aware of the possibility of
choice between the concept, or distortion, of service to self or service to
others. This marks the end of what you may call the unselfconscious, or
innocent, phase of conscious awareness.
30.2 QUESTIONER Thank you. Would you define mind, body, and spirit
separately?
R A I am Ra. These terms are all simplistic descriptive terms which equal a
complex of energy focuses; the body, as you call it, being the material of
the density which you experience at a given space/time or time/space; this
complex of materials being available for distortions of what you would
call physical manifestation.
The mind is a complex which reflects the inpourings of the spirit and the
up-pourings of the body complex. It contains what you know as feelings,
emotions, and intellectual thoughts in its more conscious complexities.
Moving further down the tree of mind we see the intuition, which is of
the nature of the mind more in contact, or in tune, with the total
beingness complex. Moving down to the roots of mind we find the
progression of consciousness which gradually turns from the personal to 
SESSION 30 263
the racial memory to the cosmic influxes, and thus becomes a direct
contactor of that shuttle which we call the spirit complex.
This spirit complex is the channel whereby the inpourings from all of the
various universal, planetary, and personal inpourings may be funneled
into the roots of consciousness, and whereby consciousness may be
funneled to the gateway of intelligent infinity through the balanced
intelligent energy of body and mind.1
You will see by this series of definitive statements that mind, body, and
spirit are inextricably intertwined and cannot continue, one without the
other. Thus we refer to the mind/body/spirit complex rather than
attempting to deal with them separately, for the work, shall we say, that
you do during your experiences is done through the interaction of these
three components, not through any one.
30.3 QUESTIONER Upon our physical death, as we call it, from this particular
density and this particular incarnative experience, we lose this chemical
body. Immediately after the loss of this chemical body, do we maintain a
different type of body? Is there still a mind/body/spirit complex at that
point?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. The mind/body/spirit complex is quite
intact; the physical body complex you now associate with the term
“body” being but manifestation of a more dense, and intelligently
informed, and powerful body complex.
30.4 QUESTIONER Is there any loss to the mind or spirit after this transition
which we call death or any impairment of either because of the loss of this
chemical body that we now have?
R A I am Ra. In your terms, there is a great loss of mind complex due to
the fact that much of the activity of a mental nature of which you are
aware during the experience of this space/time continuum is as much of a
surface illusion as is the chemical body complex.
In other terms, nothing whatever of importance is lost; the character or,
shall we say, pure distillation of emotions and biases, or distortions and
wisdoms, if you will, becoming obvious for the first time, shall we say;
 1 To see an illustration of the tree of mind metaphor, see the Resource Series.
264 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
these pure emotions and wisdoms and bias-distortions being, for the most
part, either ignored or underestimated during physical life experience.
In terms of the spiritual, this channel is then much opened due to the
lack of necessity for the forgetting characteristic of third density.
30.5 QUESTIONER I would like to know how the mind/body/spirit complexes
originate. How, going back as far as necessary, does the— Do they
originate by spirit forming mind and mind forming body? Can you tell
me this?
R A I am Ra. We ask you to consider that you are attempting to trace
evolution. This evolution is as we have previously described:2 the
consciousness being first, in first density, without movement, a random
thing. Whether you may call this mind or body complex is a semantic
problem. We call it mind/body complex, recognizing always that in the
simplest iota of this complex exists, in its entirety, the One Infinite
Creator.
This mind/body complex then in second density discovering the growing
and turning towards the light, thus awakening what you may call the
spirit complex, that which intensifies the upward spiraling towards the
love and light of the Infinite Creator.
The addition of this spirit complex, though apparent rather than real, it
having existed potentially from the beginning of space/time, perfects itself
by graduation into third density. When the mind/body/spirit complex
becomes aware of the possibility of service to self or other-self, then the
mind/body/spirit complex is activated.
30.6 QUESTIONER Thank you. I don’t wish to cover ground that we have
covered before, but it sometimes is helpful to restate these concepts for
complete clarity since words are a poor tool for what we do.
Just as a passing point, I was wondering, in . . . on this planet, during the
second density, I believe there was habitation at the same time/space of
bipedal entities and what we call the dinosaurs. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
 2 Previously described in 13.15–21.
SESSION 30 265
30.7 QUESTIONER These two types of entities seem to be incompatible, you
might say, with each other. I don’t know. Can you tell me the reason
behind both types of entities inhabiting the same space/time?
R A I am Ra. Consider the workings of free will as applied to evolution.
There are paths that the mind/body complex follows in an attempt to
survive, to reproduce, and to seek in its fashion that which is
unconsciously felt as the potential for growth; these two arenas, or paths,
of development being two among many.
30.8 QUESTIONER I see. A news program I saw a couple of weeks ago raised the
question of why the dinosaurs vanished, you might say, from our planet
suddenly. I know this is unimportant, but I just wondered what the
reason was.
R A I am Ra. These entities could not feed their body complexes.
30.9 QUESTIONER Now, in second density the concept of bisexual reproduction
first originates. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
30.10 QUESTIONER Can you tell me the philosophy behind this mechanism of
propagation of the bodily complex?
R A I am Ra. The second density is one in which the groundwork is being
laid for third-density work. In this way it may be seen that the basic
mechanisms of reproduction capitulate into a vast potential in third
density for service to other-self and to self; this being not only by the
functions of energy transfer, but also [by] the various services performed,
due to the close contact of those who are, shall we say, magnetically
attracted, one to the other; these entities thus having the opportunities for
many types of service which would be unavailable to the independent
entity.
30.11 QUESTIONER Was the basic reason, the original reason for this then to
increase opportunity for experience of the One Creator? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is not merely correct but is the key to that which occurs
in all densities.
30.12 QUESTIONER Does the process of bisexual reproduction, or the philosophy
of it, play a part in the spiritual growth of second-density entities?
266 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. In isolated instances this is so due to efficient perceptions
upon the part of entities or species. For the greater part, by far, this is not
the case in second density, the spiritual potentials being those of third
density.
30.13 QUESTIONER I was wondering if the male cat, Gandalf, has benefited by
that mechanism in some way, or by other mechanisms, in increasing
spiritual potential or understanding.
R A I am Ra. We examine this information and find it harmless. The
second-density entity, sound vibration Gandalf, is a rare sample of its
species due first to previous individualization, secondly due to a great
amount of investment in this particular life experience. This is the
greatest catalyst in this entity’s progress.
It is very unusual, as we have said. However, the experiences of bisexual
reproduction which were of the nature of the entity Gandalf were, to a
small extent, of spiritual benefit due to an unusual relationship with
another entity, this also what you call a cat. This entity also being of an
unusually third-density orientation, or investment, from previous life
experiences. Thus the formation of what could be seen to be recognizably
love did exist in this relationship.
30.14 QUESTIONER Thank you. Can you give me a brief history of the
metaphysical principles of the development of each of our planets around
the sun and their function with respect to evolution of beings?
R A I am Ra. We shall give you a metaphysical description only of those
planets upon which individual mind/body/spirit complexes have been,
are, or shall be experienced. You may understand the other spheres to be a
part of the Logos.
We take the one known as Venus. This planetary sphere was one of rapid
evolution. It is our native Earth, and the rapidity of [the progress of] the
mind/body/spirit complexes upon its surface was due to harmonious
interaction.
Upon the entity known to you as Mars, as you have already discussed,3
this entity was stopped in mid-third density, thus being unable to
continue in progression due to the lack of hospitable conditions upon the
 3 Discussed in 9.6–11, 10.6, 14.3, 18.20, 19.5, 20.17–18, 20.20, 20.26, and 21.8.
SESSION 30 267
surface. This planet shall be undergoing healing for some of your
space/time millennia.
The planet which you dwell upon has a metaphysical history well known
to you, and you may ask about it if you wish. However, we have spoken
to a great degree upon this subject.
The planet known as Saturn has a great affinity for the infinite
intelligence, and thus it has been dwelled upon in its magnetic fields of
time/space by those who wish to protect your system.
The planetary entity known to you as Uranus is slowly moving through
the first density and has the potential of moving through all densities.
30.15 QUESTIONER Thank you. I was wondering if any of the other planets had a
metaphysical evolution.
You stated yesterday that much of this major galactic system dwells
spiritually as a part of the Logos. By that do you mean that nearer the
center of this major galactic system that the stars there do not have
planetary systems? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. The Logos has distributed itself
throughout your galactic system. However, the time/space continua of
some of your more central sun systems is much further advanced.
30.16 QUESTIONER Well then, could you generally say that as you get closer to
the center of this major galactic system that there is a greater spiritual
density, I’ll use the term, or that this general spiritual quality is advanced
at that area?
R A I am Ra. This will be the last full question of this session as this
instrument is somewhat uncomfortable. We do not wish to deplete the
instrument.
The spiritual density, or mass, of those more towards the center of your
galaxy is known. However, this is due simply to the varying timelessness
states during which the planetary spheres may coalesce, this process of
space/time beginnings occurring earlier, shall we say, as you approach the
center of the galactic spiral. We welcome any short [tape ends].
268 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
30.17 QUESTIONER The instrument would like to know if you could tell her
whether or not this item which is called Sam Millar’s polarizer would help
her physical well-being. Can you do that?
R A I am Ra. As we scan the instrument, we find anomalies of the
magnetic field which are distorted towards our abilities to find narrowband channel into this instrument’s mind/body/spirit complex. The
polarizer of which you speak, as it is, would not be helpful. A careful
reading of this instrument’s aura by those gifted in this area, and
subsequent alterations of the magnetizing forces of this polarizer, would
assist the entity, Sam, in creating such a polarizer that would be of some
aid to the instrument. However, we would suggest that no electrical or
magnetic equipment not necessary for the recording of our words be
brought into these sessions, for we wish no distortions that are not
necessary.
30.18 QUESTIONER Thank you. Is there anything that we can do to make the
instrument more comfortable or to improve the contact?
R A This instrument is well balanced, and the contact is as it should be.
This instrument has certain difficulties of a distortion you would call the
muscular spasm, thus making the motionless position uncomfortable.
Thus we leave the instrument.
I am Ra. You are doing well, my friends. I leave you in the love and the
light of the One Infinite Creator. Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power
and the peace of the One Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 31
FEBRUARY 25, 1981
31.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
31.1 QUESTIONER I would like to ask a question first for the instrument herself.
She requests to know if it would be advisable for her to walk alone now
that she feels better.1
R A I am Ra. This is acceptable.
31.2 QUE STIONER OK. What I’m going to do is use the information that we
did at the end of the previous book that you suggested would be more
appropriate for more advanced material. We will put it in the book at this
point, as we are talking about bisexual reproduction, and I would like to
expand on this material a little bit to get some definitions and better
understandings.
Editor’s Note: The following is the information that the Questioner
referred to from 26.38 that deals with sexual energy transfers and
blockages, both positively and negatively oriented:
R A I am Ra. The first energy transfer is red ray. It is a random
transfer having to do only with your reproductive system.
The orange- and the yellow-ray attempts to have sexual intercourse
create, firstly, a blockage if only one entity vibrates in this area, thus
causing the entity vibrating sexually in this area to have a neverending appetite for this activity. What these vibratory levels are
seeking is green-ray activity. There is the possibility of orange- or
yellow-ray energy transfer; this being polarizing towards the
negative—one being seen as object rather than other-self; the other
seeing itself as plunderer, or master of the situation.
In fourth ray there are two possibilities. Firstly, if both vibrate in
fourth ray there will be a mutually strengthening energy transfer, the
 1 Carla walked 3–5 miles per day, and it was felt that, as a safety measure, Jim
should accompany her on these walks after her episode of not being able to
breathe and almost fainting. In this question, Carla was asking if she could walk
without Jim by her side.
270 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
negative or female as you call it, drawing the energy from the roots
of the beingness up through the energy centers, thus being physically
revitalized; the positive, or male polarity, as it is deemed in your
illusion, finding in this energy transfer an inspiration which satisfies
and feeds the spirit portion of the body/mind/spirit complex, thus
both being polarized and releasing the excess of that which each has
in abundance by nature of intelligent energy; that is,
negative/intuitive, positive/physical energies, as you may call them;
this energy transfer being blocked only if one, or both, entities have
fear of possession, of being possessed, of desiring possession or
desiring being possessed.
The other green-ray possibility is that of one entity offering greenray energy, the other not offering energy of the universal love energy,
this resulting in a blockage of energy for the one not green ray, thus
increasing frustration or appetite; the green-ray being polarizing
slightly towards service to others.
The blue-ray energy transfer is somewhat rare among your people at
this time, but is of great aid due to energy transfers involved in
becoming able to express the self without reservation, or fear.
The indigo-ray transfer is extremely rare among your people. This is
the sacramental portion of the body complex whereby contact may
be made, through the violet ray, with intelligent infinity. No
blockages may occur at these latter two levels, due to the fact that if
both entities are not ready for this energy, it is not visible, and
neither transfer nor blockage may take place. It is as though the
distributor were removed from a powerful engine.
This instrument was able, as an example of this working, to baffle
the Orion group during its LSD experiences, as you call this
substance, due to the fact that it effectively completely opened otherself to third-ray—we correct this instrument; it is growing low in
vital energy—green-ray energy and partially open other-self to blueray interaction.
You speak in this material of sexual energy transfer. Could you define that
energy transfer and expand upon its meaning, please?
R A I am Ra. Energy transfer implies the release of potential energies
across, shall we say, a potentiated space. The sexual energy transfers occur 
SESSION 31 271
due to the polarizations of two mind/body/spirit complexes, each of
which have some potential difference, one to the other. The nature of the
transfer of energy, or of the blockage of this energy, is then a function of
the interaction of these two potentials. In the cases where transfer takes
place, you may liken this to a circuit being closed. You may also see this
activity, as all experiential activities, as the Creator experiencing Itself.
31.3 QUESTIONER Would this then be the primal mechanism for the Creator to
experience Self?
R A I am Ra. This is not a proper term. Perhaps the adjective would be
“one appropriate” way of the Creator knowing Itself, for in each
interaction, no matter what the distortion, the Creator is experiencing
Itself. The bisexual knowing of the Creator by Itself has the potential for
two advantages.
Firstly, in the green-ray activated being there is the potential for a direct
and simple analog of what you may call joy—the spiritual, or
metaphysical, nature which exists in intelligent energy. This is a great aid
to comprehension of a truer nature of beingness.
The other potential advantage of bisexual reproductive acts is the
possibility of a sacramental understanding, or connection, shall we say,
with the gateway to intelligent infinity, for with appropriate preparation,
work in what you may call magic may be done, and experiences of
intelligent infinity may be had. The positively oriented individuals
concentrating upon this method of reaching intelligent infinity, then,
through the seeking or the act of will, are able to direct this infinite
intelligence to the work these entities desire to do, whether it be
knowledge of service, or ability to heal, or whatever service to others is
desired.
These are two advantages of this particular method of the Creator
experiencing Itself. As we have said before, the corollary of the strength of
this particular energy transfer is that it opens the door, shall we say, to the
individual mind/body/spirit complex’s desire to serve in an infinite
number of ways an other-self, thus polarizing towards positive.
31.4 QUESTIONER Can you expand somewhat on the concept that this action
not only allows the Creator to know Itself better but also creates, in our 
272 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
density, an offspring or makes available the pathway for another entity to
enter the density?
R A I am Ra. As we have previously said, the sexual energy transfers
include the red-ray transfer which is random and which is a function of
the second-density attempt to grow, to survive, shall we say. This is a
proper function of the sexual interaction. The offspring, as you call the
incarnated entity which takes on the mind/body complex opportunity
offered by this random act or event called the fertilization of egg by seed,
causes an entity to have the opportunity to then enter this density as an
incarnate entity.
This gives the two who were engaged in this bisexual reproductive energy
transfer the potential for great service in this area of the nurturing of the
small-experienced entity as it gains in experience.
It shall be of interest at this point to note that there is always the
possibility of using these opportunities to polarize towards the negative,
and this has been aided by the gradual building up, over many thousands
of your years, of social-complex distortions which create a tendency
towards confusion, shall we say, or baffling of the service-to-others aspect
of this energy transfer and subsequent opportunities for service to otherselves.
31.5 QUESTIONER If a sexual energy transfer occurs in green ray—and I am
assuming in this case that there is no red-ray energy transfer—does this
mean it is impossible then for this particular transfer to include
fertilization and the birthing of an entity?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. There is always the red-ray energy transfer
due to the nature of the body complex. The random result of this energy
transfer will be as it will be, as a function of the possibility of fertilization
at a given time in a given pairing of entities.
The green-ray energy transfer occurs due to the vibratory rate of each
entity being undistorted in any vital sense by the yellow- or orange-ray
energies; thus the gift, shall we say, being given freely, no payment being
requested either of the body, of the mind, or of the spirit. The green ray is
one of complete universality of love. This is a giving without expectation
of return.
31.6 QUESTIONER I was wondering if there was some principle behind the fact 
SESSION 31 273
that a sexual union does not necessarily lead to fertilization. I’m not
interested in the chemical, or physical, principles of it. I’m interested in
whether or not there is some metaphysical principle that leads to the
couple having a child or not, or is it purely random?
R A I am Ra. This is random within certain limits. If an entity has reached
the seniority whereby it chooses the basic structure of the life experience,
this entity may then choose to incarnate in a physical complex which is
not capable of reproduction. Thus we find some entities which have
chosen to be unfertile. Other entities, through free will, make use of
various devices to insure nonfertility. Except for these conditions, the
condition is random.
31.7 QUESTIONER Thank you. In the material earlier you mentioned “magnetic
attraction.” Could you define and expand upon that term?
R A I am Ra. We used the term to indicate that in your bisexual natures
there is that which is of polarity. This polarity may be seen to be variable
according to the, shall we say, male/female polarization of each entity, be
each entity biologically male or female. Thus you may see the magnetism
when two entities with the appropriate balance, male/female versus
female/male polarity, meeting and thus feeling the attraction which
polarized forces will exert, one upon the other.
This is the strength of the bisexual mechanism. It does not take an act of
will to decide to feel attraction for one who is oppositely polarized
sexually. It will occur in an inevitable sense, giving the free flow of energy
a proper, shall we say, avenue. This avenue may be blocked by some
distortion towards a belief/condition which states to the entity that this
attraction is not desired. However, the basic mechanism functions as
simply as would, shall we say, the magnet and the iron.
31.8 QUESTIONER We have what seems to be an increasing number of entities
incarnate here now who have what is called a homosexual orientation in
this respect. Could you explain and expand upon that concept?
R A I am Ra. Entities of this condition experience a great deal of
distortion due to the fact that they have experienced many incarnations as
biological male and as biological female. This would not suggest what you
call homosexuality in an active phase were it not for the difficult vibratory
condition of your planetary sphere. There is what you may call great aura 
274 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
infringement among your crowded urban areas in your more populous
countries, as you call portions of your planetary surface. Under these
conditions the confusions will occur.
31.9 QUESTIONER Why does density of population create these confusions?
R A I am Ra. The bisexual reproductive urge has as its goal, not only the
simple reproductive function, but more especially the desire to serve
others being awakened by this activity.
In an over-crowded situation where each mind/body/spirit complex is
under a constant bombardment from other-selves, it is understandable
that those who are especially sensitive would not feel the desire to be of
service to other-selves. This also would increase the probability of a lack
of desire or a blockage of the red-ray reproductive energy.
In an uncrowded atmosphere this same entity would, through the
stimulus of feeling the solitude about it, then have much more desire to
seek out someone to whom it may be of service thus regularizing the
sexual reproductive function.
31.10 QUESTIONER Roughly how many previous incarnations, shall we say,
would a male entity in this incarnation have had to have had in the past
as a female to have a highly homosexual orientation in this incarnation?
Just roughly.
R A I am Ra. If an entity has had roughly 65% of its incarnations in the
sexual/biological body complex, the opposite polarity to its present body
complex, this entity is vulnerable to the aura infringement of your urban
areas, and may, perhaps, become of what you call an homosexual nature.
It is to be noted at this juncture that although it is much more difficult, it
is possible in this type of association for an entity to be of great service to
another in fidelity and sincere green-ray love of a nonsexual nature, thus
adjusting or lessening the distortions of its sexual impairment.2
31.11 QUESTIONER Timothy Leary, doing research, wrote that at the time of
puberty, and up through that time, there is an imprint occurring on the
DNA coding of an entity and that, for instance, sexual biases are
 2 To read an essay examining the meaning of these Q&As regarding homosexuality,
see the Resource Series.
SESSION 31 275
imprinted due to early sexual experiences or some of the first sexual
experiences of the entity. Does anything like this actually happen?
R A I am Ra. This is partially correct. Due to the nature of solitary sexual
experiences, it is in most cases unlikely that what you call masturbation
has an imprinting effect upon later experiences.
This is similarly true with some of the encounters which might be seen as
homosexual among those of this age group. These are often, instead,
innocent exercises in curiosity.
However, it is quite accurate that the first experience in which the
mind/body/spirit complex is intensely involved will indeed imprint upon
the entity, for that life experience, a set of preferences.
31.12 QUESTIONER Does the Orion group use this, shall we say, as a gateway to
impressing upon entities, shall we say, preferences which could create
negative polarization?
R A I am Ra. Just as we of the Confederation attempt to beam our love
and light whenever given the opportunity, including sexual opportunities,
so the Orion group will use an opportunity, if it is negatively oriented, or
if the individual is negatively oriented.
31.13 QUESTIONER Is there any emotional bias that has nothing to do with
male/female sexual polarity that can create sexual energy buildup in an
entity?
R A I am Ra. The sexual energy buildup is extremely unlikely to occur
without sexual bias upon the part of the entity. Perhaps we did not
understand your question, but it seems obvious that it would take an
entity with the potential for sexual activity to experience a sexual energy
buildup.
31.14 QUESTIO NER I was thinking more of the possibility of the Orion group
having influenced, say, certain members of the Third Reich who I have
read reports of having sexual gratification from the observation of the, in
some cases, the gassing and killing of entities in the gas chambers.
R A I am Ra. We shall repeat: these entities had the potential for sexual
energy buildup. The choice of stimulus is certainly the choice of the
entity. In the case of which you speak, these entities were strongly
polarized orange ray, thus finding the energy blockage of power over 
276 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
others, the putting to death being the ultimate power over others; this
then being expressed in a sexual manner, though solitary.
In this case the desire would continue unabated and be virtually
unquenchable.
You will find, if you observe the entire spectrum of sexual practices
among your peoples, that there are those who experience such
gratification from domination over others either from rape or from other
means of domination. In each case this is an example of energy blockage
which is sexual in its nature.
31.15 QUESTIONER Would the Orion group then be able, shall we say, to impress
on entities this orange-ray effect? Or did they— Is this the way that this
came about, is what I’m trying to get at. Is this the way these concepts
came about on this planet? Because if we go back to the beginning of
third density, there must be a primal cause of this.
R A I am Ra. The cause of this is not Orion. It is the free choice of your
peoples. This is somewhat difficult to explain. We shall attempt.
The sexual energy transfers and blockages are more a manifestation, or
example, of that which is more fundamental than the other way about.
Therefore, as your peoples became open to the concepts of bellicosity and
the greed of ownership, these various distortions then began to filter
down through the tree of mind into body complex expressions, the sexual
expression being basic to that complex. Thus these sexual energy
blockages, though Orion influenced and intensified, are basically the
product of the beingness chosen freely by your peoples.
This will be the final question unless we may speak further upon this
question to clarify, or answer any short queries before we close.
31.16 QUESTIONER I just need to know if this then works through the racial
memory to infect the entire population in some way. Does that sort of
thing happen?
R A I am Ra. The racial memory contains all that has been experienced.
Thus there is some, shall we say, contamination even of the sexual, this
showing mostly in your own culture as the various predispositions to
adversary relationships—or, as you call them, marriages—rather than the
free giving one to another in the love and the light of the Infinite Creator.
SESSION 31 277
31.17 QUESTIONER That was precisely the point which I was trying to make.
Thank you very much. Not to tire the instrument, I will just ask, then, if
there is anything we can do to make the instrument more comfortable or
to improve the contact?
R A I am Ra. Please be aware that this instrument is somewhat fatigued.
The channel is very clear. However, we find the vital energy low. We do
not wish to deplete the instrument. However, there is a, shall we say,
energy exchange which we feel an honor/duty to offer when this
instrument opens itself. Therefore, counsel we this instrument to attempt
to assess the vital energies carefully before offering itself as open channel.
All is well. You are conscientious.
I am Ra. I leave this instrument, and you, in the love and in the light of
the One Infinite Creator. Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power and the
peace of the One Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 32
FEBRUARY 27, 1981
32.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
32.1 QUESTIONER I have a little question I will throw in at this point from Jim.
I will read it.
“The instrument’s physical complex is now in the process of recovery
from taking a chemical. She was ignorant of the opening that she was
creating. How can each of the three of us present be more aware of how
such openings may be created in our actions and thoughts? Is it possible
that we could make such openings innocently as we question in certain
areas during these sessions? And then, what can we do to protect ourselves
from distorting influences in general? Is there any ritual or meditation
that we could use?”
R A I am Ra. Although we are in sympathy with the great desire to be of
service exemplified by this question, our answer is limited by the
distortion of the Way of Confusion. We shall say some general things
which may be of service in this area.
Firstly, when this instrument distorted its bodily complex towards low
vital energy due to this occurrence, it was a recognizable substance which
caused this. This was not a, shall we say, natural substance, nor was the
mind/body/spirit complex enough aware of its distortion towards physical
weakness. The natural ways of, shall we say, everyday existence in which
the entity without the distortions caused by ingestion of strongly effective
chemicals may be seen to be of an always appropriate nature. There are
no mistakes, including the action of this instrument.
Secondly, the means of protection against any negative, or debilitating,
influence for those upon the positive path was demonstrated by this
instrument to a very great degree. Consider, if you will, the potentials that
this particular occurrence had for negative influences to enter the
instrument. This instrument thought upon the Creator in its solitude,
and in actions with other-self continually praised and gave thanksgiving
to the Creator for the experiences it was having.
SESSION 32 279
This, in turn, allowed this particular entity to radiate to the other-self
such energies as became a catalyst for an opening and strengthening of the
other-self’s ability to function in a more positively polarized state. Thus
we see protection being very simple. Give thanksgiving for each moment.
See the self and the other-self as Creator. Open the heart. Always know
the light and praise it. This is all the protection necessary.
32.2 QUESTIONER Thank you very much. I will now continue with the material
from day before yesterday. Our subject is how sexual polarity acts as a
catalyst in evolution and how to best make use of this catalyst. Going
back to that material, I will fill in a few gaps that we possibly don’t
understand at this point too well.
Can you tell me the difference between orange- and yellow-ray activation?
I am going to work up from red ray right on through the violet, and we
covered red ray, so what’s the difference between orange- and yellow-ray
activation?
R A I am Ra. The orange ray is that influence, or vibratory pattern,
wherein the mind/body/spirit expresses its power on an individual basis.
Thus power over individuals may be seen to be orange ray. This ray has
been quite intense among your peoples on an individual basis. You may
see in this ray the treating of other-selves as non-entities, slaves, or chattel,
thus giving other-selves no status whatever.
The yellow ray is a focal and very powerful ray, and concerns the entity in
relation to, shall we say, groups, societies, or large numbers of
mind/body/spirit complexes. This orange—we correct ourselves—this
yellow-ray vibration is at the heart of bellicose actions in which one group
of entities feel the necessity and right of dominating other groups of
entities and bending their wills to the wills of the masters.
The negative path, as you would call it, uses a combination of the yellow
ray and the orange ray in its polarization patterns. These rays, used in a
dedicated fashion, will bring about a contact with intelligent infinity. The
usual nature of sexual interaction, if one is yellow or orange in primary
vibratory patterns, is one of blockage and then insatiable hunger due to
the blockage. When there are two selves vibrating in this area, the
potential for polarization through the sexual interaction is begun, one
entity experiencing the pleasure of humiliation and slavery, or bondage,
the other experiencing the pleasure of mastery and control over another 
280 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
entity. In this way a sexual energy transfer of a negative polarity is
experienced.
32.3 QUESTIONER From the material that you transmitted February 17th you
stated: “In third ray there are two possibilities. Firstly, if both vibrate in
third ray there will be a mutually strengthening energy transfer.” What
color is third ray in this material?
R A I am Ra. The ray we were speaking of in that material should be
properly the green ray or fourth ray.
32.4 QUESTIONER So I should change that third to fourth?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.1 Please continue to scan for errors having to
do with numberings, as you call them, as this concept is foreign to us and
we must translate, if you will, when using numbers. This is an ongoing
weakness of this contact due to the difference between our ways and
yours. Your aid is appreciated.
32.5 QUESTIONER OK. Thank you. I believe that for the time being we’ve
amply covered green ray, so I am going to skip over green ray and go to
blue ray.
Could you tell me the difference that occurs between green and blue with
the emphasis on blue ray?
R A I am Ra. With the green-ray transfer of energy you now come to the
great turning point sexually as well as in each other mode of experience.
The green ray may then be turned outward, the entity then giving rather
than receiving. The first giving beyond green ray is the giving of
acceptance, or freedom, thus allowing the recipient of blue-ray energy
transfer the opportunity for a feeling of being accepted, thus freeing that
other-self to express itself to the giver of this ray.
It will be noted that once green-ray energy transfer has been achieved by
two mind/body/spirits in mating, the further rays are available without
both entities having the necessity to progress equally. Thus a blue-ray
vibrating entity or indigo-ray vibrating entity whose other ray vibrations
are clear may share that energy with the green-ray other-self, thus acting
as catalyst for the continued learn/teaching of the other-self. Until an
 1 A footnote has been added to 26.38.
SESSION 32 281
other-self reaches green ray, such energy transfers through the rays is not
possible.
32.6 QUESTIONER My next question had to do with indigo ray. Is there any
difference between indigo and blue-ray energy transfer?
R A I am Ra. The indigo ray is the ray of, shall we say, awareness of the
Creator as self; thus one whose indigo-ray vibrations have been activated
can offer the energy transfer of Creator to Creator. This is the beginning
of the sacramental nature of what you call your bisexual reproductive act.
It is unique in bearing the allness, the wholeness, the unity in its offering
to other-self.
32.7 QUESTIONER And then finally, the violet ray. What is the difference
between violet ray and the others?
R A I am Ra. The violet ray, just as the red ray, is constant in the sexual
experience. Its experience by other-self may be distorted, or completely
ignored, or not apprehended by other-self. However, the violet ray, being
the sum and substance of the mind/body/spirit complex, surrounds and
informs any action by a mind/body/spirit complex.
32.8 QUESTIONER Do the energy transfers of this nature occur in fourth, fifth,
sixth, and seventh density? I mean, of all the rays?
R A I am Ra. The rays, as you understand them, have such a different
meaning in the next density, and the next, and so forth, that we must
answer your query in the negative. Energy transfers only take place in
fourth, fifth, and sixth densities. These are still of what you would call a
polarized nature. However, due to the ability of these densities to see the
harmonies between individuals, these entities choose those mates which
are harmonious, thus allowing constant transfer of energy and the
propagation of the body complexes which each density uses.
The process is different in the fifth and the sixth density than you may
understand it. However, it is in these cases still based upon polarity. In
the seventh density there is not this particular energy exchange as it is
unnecessary to recycle body complexes.
32.9 QUESTIONER I am assuming from what we have previously looked at . . .
we have on Earth today, and have had in the past, fourth-, fifth-, and
sixth-density wanderers. As they come into incarnation in the physical of 
282 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
this density for a period as a wanderer, what types of polarizations with
respect to these various rays do they find affecting them? Can you tell me
that?
R A I am Ra. I believe I grasp the thrust of your query. Please ask further if
this answer is not sufficient.
Fourth-density wanderers, of which there are not many, will tend to
choose those entities which seem to be full of love or in need of love.
There is the great possibility/probability of entities making errors in
judgment due to the compassion with which other-selves are viewed.
The fifth-density wanderer is one who is not tremendously affected by the
stimulus of the various rays of other-self and, in its own way, offers itself
when a need is seen. Such entities are not likely to engage in the, shall we
say, custom of your peoples called marriage and are very likely to feel an
aversion to childbearing and child-raising due to the awareness of the
impropriety of the planetary vibrations relative to the harmonious
vibrations of the density of light.
The sixth density, whose means of propagation you may liken to what
you call fusion, is likely to refrain, to a great extent, from the bisexual
reproductive programming of the bodily complex and instead seek out
those with whom the sexual energy transfer is of the complete fusion
nature insofar as this is possible in manifestation in third density.
32.10 QUESTIONER Can you expand a little bit on what you mean by “complete
fusion nature?”
R A I am Ra. The entire creation is of the One Creator. Thus the division
of sexual activity into simply that of the bodily complex is an artificial
division, all things thusly being seen as sexual equally—the mind, the
body, and the spirit—all of which are part of the polarity of the entity.
Thus sexual fusion may be seen, with or without what you may call sexual
intercourse, to be the complete melding of the mind, the body, and the
spirit in what feels to be a constant orgasm, shall we say, of joy and
delight each in the other’s beingness.
32.11 QUESTIONER Would then many wanderers of the higher densities have
considerable problems with respect to incarnation in third density
because of this different orientation?
SESSION 32 283
R A I am Ra. The possibility/probability of such problems, as you call
them, due to sixth density incarnating in third is rather large. It is not
necessarily a problem if you would call it thusly. It depends upon the
unique orientation of each mind/body/spirit complex having this
situation or placement of vibratory relativities.
32.12 QUESTIONER Can you give me an idea how the different colors . . . this is a
difficult question to ask. I hardly have any words.
What I’m trying to get at is how the different colors, I might say,
originate as these functions . . . or the essence, you might say, of the
origin of these colors as functions for these different expressions in
consciousness. I don’t know if this question is sufficient.
R A I am Ra. This question is sufficiently clear for us to attempt
explanation of what, as you have observed, is not easily grasped material
for the intellectual mind. The nature of vibration is such that it may be
seen as having mathematically strait or narrow steps. These steps may be
seen as having boundaries. Within each boundary there are infinite
gradations of vibration or color.
However, as one approaches a boundary, an effort must be made to cross
that boundary. These colors are a simplistic way of expressing the
boundary divisions of your density. There is also the time/space analogy
which may be seen as the color itself in a modified aspect.
32.13 QUESTIONER Thank you. Is it possible for an entity in third-density
physical to vary widely across the entire band of colors, or is the entity
pretty well zeroed in on one color?
R A I am Ra. This will be the last full question of this working. Please
restate for clarity.
32.14 QUESTIONER I just meant was it possible, say, for a green-ray . . . when
we’re talking about green-ray activation and energy transfers, is it possible
for a green-ray person who is primarily green-ray activation to vary on
both sides of green ray a large or a small amount in energy activation, or
does he stay primarily green-ray?
R A I am Ra. We grasp the newness of material requested by you. It was
unclear, for we thought we had covered this material. The portion
covered is this: the green-ray activation is always vulnerable to the yellow 
284 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
or orange ray of possession, this being largely yellow ray but often coming
into orange ray. Fear of possession, desire for possession, fear of being
possessed, desire to be possessed: these are the distortions which will cause
the deactivation of green-ray energy transfer.
The new material is this: once the green ray has been achieved, the ability
of the entity to enter blue ray is immediate and is only awaiting the efforts
of the individual. The indigo ray is opened only through considerable
discipline and practice largely having to do with acceptance of self, not
only as the polarized and balanced self but as the Creator, as an entity of
infinite worth. This will begin to activate the indigo ray.
32.15 QUESTIONER Thank you.
R A I am Ra. Do you have any brief queries before we close?
32.16 QUESTIONER I think anything would be too long. I’ll just ask if there’s
anything we can do to make the instrument more comfortable or make
the contact better?
R A I am Ra. All is well. We caution not only this instrument but each to
look well to the vital energies necessary for non-depletion of the
instrument and the contact level. You are most conscientious, my friends.
We shall be with you.
I leave you now in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator.
Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One Infinite
Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 33
MARCH 1, 1981
33.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. I communicate now.
33.1 QUESTIONER In our last session you cautioned “each to look well to the
vital energies necessary for non-depletion of the instrument and the
contact level.” Did that mean that we should . . . that Jim and I should
look at the instrument’s . . . or be careful of the instrument’s vital energies
or be careful of our own vital energies?
R A I am Ra. Each entity is responsible for itself. The mechanics of this
process taking place involve, firstly, the use of the physical bodily complex
of third density with its accompanying physical material in order to voice
these words. Thus this instrument needs to watch its vital energies
carefully, for we do not wish to deplete this instrument.
Secondly, the function of the supporting group may be seen to be, firstly,
that of protection for this contact; secondly, that of energizing the
instrument and intensifying its vital energies.
This supporting group has always, due to an underlying harmony, been
of a very stable nature as regards protection in love and light, thus
ensuring the continuation of this narrow-band contact. However, the
vital energies of either of the supporting members being depleted, the
instrument must then use a larger portion of its vital energies, thus
depleting itself more than would be profitable on a long-term basis.
Please understand that we ask your apology for this infringement upon
your free will. However, it is our distortion-understanding that you
would prefer this information rather than, being left totally to your own
dedication-distortions, deplete the instrument or deplete the group to the
point where the contact cannot be sustained.
33.2 QUESTIONER Can you give us advice on how to maintain the best possible
condition for maintaining contact?
R A I am Ra. We have given information concerning the proper nurturing
of this channel. We, therefore, repeat ourselves only in two ways in
general.
286 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Firstly, we suggest that rather than being, shall we say, brave and ignoring
a physical-complex-weakness distortion, it is good to share this distortion
with the group and thus, perhaps, shall we say, remove one opportunity
for contact which is very wearying to the instrument in order that another
opportunity might come about in which the instrument is properly
supported.
Secondly, the work begun in harmony may continue. Harmony,
thanksgiving, and praise of opportunities and of the Creator: these are
your protection. These are our suggestions. We cannot be specific, for
your free will is of the essence in this contact. As we said, we only speak to
this subject because of our grasp of your orientation towards long-term
maintenance of this contact. This is acceptable to us.
33.3 QUESTIONER Thank you very much. The instrument has a device for socalled color therapy, and since we were on, in the past session, the
concept of the different colors I was wondering if these, in some way,
apply to the principle of color therapy in the shining of particular colors
on the physical body. Does this have any beneficial effect, and can you
tell me something about it?
R A I am Ra. This therapy, as you call it, is a somewhat clumsy and
variably useful tool for instigating in an entity’s mind/body/spirit
complex an intensification of energies, or vibrations, which may be of aid
to the entity. The variableness of this device is due, firstly, to the lack of
true colors used; secondly, to the extreme variation in sensitivity to
vibration among your peoples.
33.4 QUESTIONER I would think that you could achieve a true color by passing
the light through a crystal of the particular color. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This would be one way of approaching accuracy in color. It
is a matter of what you would call quality control that the celluloid used
is of a varying color. This is not a great, or even visible, variation;
however, it does make some difference given specific applications.
33.5 QUESTIONER Possibly the use of a prism breaking white light into its
spectrum and then screening off all parts of the spectrum except that
which you wish to pass through a slit and use would be even better.
Would this be true?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
SESSION 33 287
33.6 QUESTIONER Thank you. I was wondering if there is a programming of
experiences that causes an individual to get certain catalyst in his daily
life. For instance, as we go through our daily life there are many things
that we can experience. We look at these experiences as occurring by pure
chance or by a conscious design of ours, like making appointments or
going places. I was just wondering if there was a behind-the-scenes, I
might call it, programming of catalyst to create the necessary experiences
for more rapid growth in the case of some entities. Is this . . . does this
happen?
R A I am Ra. We believe we grasp the heart of your query. Please request
further information if we are not correct.
The incarnating entity which has become conscious of the incarnative
process and thus programs its own experience may choose the amount of
catalyst or, to phrase this differently, the number of lessons which it will
undertake to experience and to learn from in one incarnation. This does
not mean that all is predestined, but rather that there are invisible
guidelines shaping events which will function according to this
programming. Thus if one opportunity is missed, another will appear
until the, shall we say, student of the life experience grasps that a lesson is
being offered and undertakes to learn it.
33.7 QUESTIONER Then these lessons would be reprogrammed, you might say,
as a life experience continues. Let’s say that an entity develops a bias that
he actually didn’t choose to develop prior to incarnation. It is then
possible to program experiences so that he will have an opportunity to
alleviate this bias through balancing. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is precisely correct.
33.8 QUESTIONER Thank you. Then from this I would extrapolate to the
conjecture, I will say, that the orientation in mind of the entity is the only
thing that is of any consequence at all. The physical catalyst that he
experiences, regardless of what is happening about him, will be a function
strictly of his orientation in mind. I will use as an example [example
deleted], this being a statement of the orientation in mind governing the
catalyst. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. We prefer not to use any well-known examples, sayings, or
adages in our communications to you due to the tremendous amount of 
288 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
distortion which any well-known saying has undergone. Therefore, we
may answer the first part of your query, asking that you delete the
example. It is completely true, to the best of our knowledge, that the
orientation, or polarization, of the mind/body/spirit complex is cause of
the perceptions generated by each entity.
Thus a scene may be observed in your grocery store. The entity ahead of
self may be without sufficient funds. One entity may then take this
opportunity to steal. Another may take this opportunity to feel itself a
failure. Another may unconcernedly remove the least necessary items, pay
for what it can, and go about its business. The one behind the self,
observing, may feel compassion, may feel an insult because of standing
next to a poverty-stricken person, may feel generosity, may feel
indifference.
Do you now see the analogies in a more appropriate manner?
33.9 QUESTIONE R Yes, I do. Then from this I will extrapolate the concept
which is somewhat more difficult because, as you have explained before,
even fourth-density positive has the concept of defensive action, but
above the fourth density the concept of defensive action is not in use. The
concept of defensive action and [chuckles] offensive action are very much
in use in this, our present experience.
I am assuming that if an entity is polarized strongly enough in his
thought in a positive sense, defensive action is not going to be necessary
for him because the opportunity to apply defensive action will never
originate for him. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is unknowable. In each case, as we have said, an entity
able to program experiences may choose the number and the intensity of
lessons to be learned.
It is possible that an extremely positively oriented entity might program
for itself situations testing the ability of self to refrain from defensive
action, even to the point of the physical death of self or other-self. This is
an intensive lesson, and it is not known, shall we say, what entities have
programmed. We may, if we desire, read this programming. However,
this is an infringement and we choose not to do so.
33.10 QUESTIONER I will ask you if you are familiar with the motion picture
called The Ninth Configuration. Are you familiar with this?
SESSION 33 289
R A I am Ra. We scan your mind complex and see this configuration
called The Ninth Configuration.
33.11 QUESTIONER This motion picture brought out this point of which we have
been talking. And the entity, the Colonel, had to make a decision at that
point. I was just wondering, with respect to polarity, his polarization. He
could have either knuckled under, you might say, to the negative forces,
but he chose to defend his friend instead.
Is it possible for you to estimate which is more positively polarizing: to
defend the positively oriented entity or to allow the suppression by the
negatively oriented entities? Can you answer this even?
R A I am Ra. This question takes in the scope of fourth density as well as
your own, and its answer may best be seen by the action of the entity
called Jehoshua, which you call Jesus. This entity was to be defended by
its friends. The entity reminded its friends to put away the sword. This
entity then delivered itself to be put to the physical death.
The impulse to protect the loved other-self is one which persists through
the fourth density, a density abounding in compassion. More than this we
cannot and need not say.
33.12 QUESTIONER Thank you. As we near the end of this master cycle there
may be an increasing amount of catalyst for entities. I am wondering if, as
the planetary vibrations mismatch somewhat with the fourth-density
vibrations and catalyst is increased, if this will create a slight amount of
more polarization, thereby getting a slightly greater positive harvest
because of this catalyst, and in the same way create a more negative
polarization, and then get a slight amount more negative harvest by this
mechanism of transition that is, unfortunately, somewhat more catalytic
than it would be if the planet had reached a higher state of consciousness.
Does this happen?
R A I am Ra. The question must be answered in two parts:
Firstly, the planetary catastrophes, as you may call them, are a symptom
of the difficult harvest rather than a consciously programmed catalyst for
harvest. Thus we do not concern ourselves with it, for it is random in
respect to conscious catalyst such as we may make available.
The second portion is this: the results of the random catalyst of what you 
290 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
call the earth changes are also random. Thus we may see
probability/possibility vortices going towards positive and negative.
However, it will be as it will be. The true opportunities for conscious
catalyst are not a function of the earth changes but of the result of the
seniority system of incarnations which at the time of the harvest has
placed in incarnation those whose chances of using life experiences to
become harvestable are the best.
33.13 QUESTIONER Is this seniority system also used for the service-to-self side
for becoming harvestable on that side?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. You may ask one more full question at this
time.
33.14 QUESTIONER OK. What I would like for you to do is list all the major
mechanisms designed to provide catalytic experience that do not include
interaction with other-self. That’s the first part of the question I’ll ask.
R A I am Ra. We grasp from this question that you realize that the
primary mechanism for catalytic experience in third density is other-self.
The list of other catalytic influences: firstly, the Creator’s universe;
secondly, the self.
33.15 QUESTIONER Can you list any sub-headings under the self that would . . .
or ways that the self is acted on catalytically to produce experience?
R A I am Ra. Firstly, the self unmanifested. Secondly, the self in relation
to the societal self created by self and other-self. Thirdly, the interaction
between self and the gadgets, toys, and amusements of the self/other-self
invention. Fourthly, the self relationship with those attributes which you
may call war and rumors of war.
33.16 QUESTIONER I was thinking possibly the catalyst of physical pain. How
does this . . . Does this go under this heading?
R A I am Ra. This is correct, it going under the heading of the
unmanifested self; that is, the self which does not need other-self in order
to manifest or act.
33.17 QUESTIONER Do we have enough time left to ask the second part of this
question, which is to list all major mechanisms designed to provide the
catalyst that include action with other-self? Do we have enough time for
that?
SESSION 33 291
R A I am Ra. You have much time for this, for we may express this list in
one of two ways. We could speak infinitely, or we could simply state that
any interaction betwixt self and other-self has whatever potential for
catalyst that there exists in the potential difference between self and otherself, this moderated and undergirded by the constant fact of the Creator
as self and as other-self. You may ask to this question further if you wish
specific information.
33.18 QUESTIONER I believe that that is sufficient for the time being.
R A I am Ra. Do you have a brief query or two before we close this
working?
33.19 QUESTIONER Uh, just a minute. I don’t think that anything I could ask at
this time would be brief enough. Just a minute. [Sounds of papers being
handled.]
Yes, there’s one question. Is there any difference in violet-ray activity, or
brightness, between entities who are at the entrance level to fourthdensity positive and negative?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. The violet ray of the positive fourth-density
will be tinged with the green, blue, indigo triad of energies. This tinge
may be seen as a portion of a rainbow or prism, as you know it, the rays
being quite distinct.
The violet ray of fourth-density negative has in its aura, shall we say, the
tinge of red, orange, yellow, these three rays being muddied rather than
distinct.
33.20 QUESTIONER Just as a slight appendage to that question: what would the
rays of fifth and sixth density look like?
R A I am Ra. We may speak only approximately. However, we hope you
understand, shall we say, that there is a distinctive difference in the color
structure of each density.
Fifth density is perhaps best described as extremely white in vibration.
The sixth density of a whiteness which contains a golden quality as you
would perceive it; these colors having to do with the blending into
wisdom of the compassion learned in fourth density, then in sixth the
blending of wisdom back into an unified understanding of compassion 
292 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
viewed with wisdom. This golden color is not of your spectrum but is
what you would call alive.
You may ask one more question briefly.
33.21 QUESTIONER Then I will ask if there is anything we can do to make the
instrument more comfortable or improve the contact?
R A I am Ra. This working is well. You are attempting to be
conscientious. We thank you. May we say we enjoyed your vision of our
social memory complex drinking one of your liquids while speaking
through this instrument.
I am Ra. I leave you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One
Infinite Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 34
MARCH 4, 1981
34.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
34.1 QUESTIONER The instrument would like to know if two short exercise
periods a day would be better for her than one long one?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. The proper configuration of the physical
complex exercising during the three-month period wherein the
instrument is vulnerable to physical-complex-distortion intensifications
needs the strengthening of the physical complex. This may appropriately
be seen to be one major period of the exercising followed late in your
diurnal cycle, before the evening meditation, by an exercise period
approximately one-half the length of the first. This will be seen to be
wearing upon the instrument. However, it will have the effect of
strengthening the physical complex and lessening the vulnerability which
might be taken advantage of.
34.2 QUESTIONER Thank you very much. We’ll start general questioning now.
You stated at an earlier time that penetration of the eighth level, or
intelligent infinity level, allows a mind/body/spirit complex to be
harvested if it wishes at any time/space during the cycle. When this
penetration of the eighth level occurs, what does the entity who
penetrates this level experience? Can you tell me this?
R A I am Ra. The experience of each entity is unique in perception of
intelligent infinity. Perceptions range from a limitless joy to a strong
dedication to service to others while in the incarnated state. The entity
which reaches intelligent infinity most often will perceive this experience
as one of unspeakable profundity. However, it is not usual for the entity
to immediately desire the cessation of the incarnation. Rather the desire
to communicate or use this experience to aid others is extremely strong.
34.3 QUESTIONER Is it possible for you to tell me what I experienced, around
1964 I believe it was, when in meditation I became aware of what I
would consider to be a different density and different planet, and seemed
to experience moving onto that planet? Is it possible for you to tell me
what experience that was?
294 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. We see some harm in full disclosure due to infringement.
We content ourselves with suggesting that this entity, which is not readily
able to subject itself to the process of hypnotic regression instigated by
others, nevertheless, has had its opportunities for understanding of its
beingness.
34.4 QUESTIONER Thank you. Would you define karma?
R A I am Ra. Our understanding of karma is that which may be called
inertia. Those actions which are put into motion will continue, using the
ways of balancing, until such time as the controlling or higher principle,
which you may liken unto your braking, or stopping, is invoked. This
stoppage of the inertia of action may be called forgiveness. These two
concepts are inseparable.
34.5 QUESTIONER If an entity develops what is called a karma in an incarnation,
is there, then, programming that sometimes occurs so that he will
experience catalyst that will enable him to get to a point of forgiveness,
thereby alleviating the karma?
R A I am Ra. This is, in general, correct. However, both self and any
involved other-self may, at any time, through the process of
understanding, acceptance, and forgiveness, ameliorate these patterns.
This is true at any point in an incarnative pattern. Thus one who has set
in motion an action may forgive itself and never again make that error.
This also brakes, or stops, what you call karma.
34.6 QUESTIONER Thank you. Can you give me examples of catalytic action to
produce learning under each of the following headings from the last
session we had . . . Can you give me an example of the self unmanifested
producing learning catalyst?
R A I am Ra. We observed your interest in the catalyst of pain. This
experience is most common among your entities. The pain may be of the
physical complex. More often it is of the mental and emotional complex.
In some few cases the pain is spiritual in complex-nature. This creates a
potential for learning. The lessons to be learned vary. Almost always these
lessons include patience, tolerance, and the ability for the light touch.
Very often the catalyst for emotional pain, whether it be the death of the
physical complex of one other-self which is loved or some other seeming
loss, will simply result in the opposite: in a bitterness, an impatience, a 
SESSION 34 295
souring. This is catalyst which has gone awry. In these cases, then, there
will be additional catalyst provided to offer the unmanifested self further
opportunities for discovering the self as all-sufficient Creator containing
all that there is and full of joy.
34.7 QUESTIONER Do what we call contagious diseases play any part in this
process with respect to the unmanifested self?
R A I am Ra. These so-called contagious diseases are those entities of
second density which offer an opportunity for this type of catalyst. If this
catalyst is unneeded, then these second-density creatures, as you would
call them, do not have an effect. In each of these generalizations you may
please note that there are anomalies so that we cannot speak to every
circumstance but only to the general run, or way of things, as you
experience them.
34.8 QUESTIONER What part do what we call birth defects play in this process?
R A I am Ra. This is a portion of the programming of the mind/body
complex totality manifested in the mind/body/spirit of third density.
These defects are planned as limitations which are part of the experience
intended by the entity totality complex. This includes genetic
predispositions, as you may call them.
34.9 QUESTIONER Thank you. Would you give me the same type of
information about the self in relation to the societal self?
R A I am Ra. The unmanifested self may find its lessons those which
develop any of the energy influx centers of the mind/body/spirit complex.
The societal and self interactions most often concentrate upon the second
and third energy centers. Thus those most active in attempting to remake
or alter the society are those working from feelings of being correct
personally, or of having answers which will put power in a more correct
configuration. This may be seen to be of a full travel from negative to
positive in orientation. Either will activate these energy ray centers.
There are some few whose desires to aid society are of a green-ray nature
or above. These entities, however, are few due to the understanding, may
we say, of fourth ray that universal love freely given is more to be desired
than principalities, or even the rearrangement of peoples or political
structures.
296 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
34.10 QUESTIONER If an entity were to be strongly biased toward positive societal
effects, what would this do to his yellow ray in the aura as opposed to an
entity who wanted to create an empire of society and govern it with an
iron fist? What would be the difference in the yellow-ray activity of these
two entities?
R A I am Ra. Let us take two such positively oriented active souls no
longer in your physical time/space. The one known as Albert, who went
into a strange and, to it, a barbaric society in order that it might heal.
This entity was able to mobilize great amounts of energy and what you
call money. This entity spent much green-ray energy both as a healer and
as a lover of your instrument known as the organ. This entity’s yellow ray
was bright and crystallized by the efforts needed to procure the funds to
promulgate its efforts. However, the green and blue rays were of a
toweringly brilliant nature as well. The higher levels, as you may call
them, being activated, the lower, as you may call them, energy points
remain, in a balanced being, quite, quite bright.
The other example is the entity, Martin. This entity dealt in a great
degree with rather negative orange-ray and yellow-ray vibratory patterns.
However, this entity was able to keep open the green-ray energy and due
to the severity of its testing, if anything, this entity may be seen to have
polarized more towards the positive due to its fidelity to service to others
in the face of great catalyst.
34.11 QUESTIONER Could you give me the last names of Albert and Martin?
R A I am Ra. These entities are known to you as Albert Schweitzer and
Martin Luther King.
34.12 QUESTIONER I thought that that was correct, but I wasn’t sure. Can you
give me the same type of information that we have been getting here with
respect to the unmanifested self interacting between self and gadgets, toys,
etc. . . . inventions?
R A I am Ra. In this particular instance we again concentrate, for the most
part, in the orange and in the yellow energy centers.
In a negative sense many of the gadgets among your peoples—that is,
what you call your communication devices and other distractions, such as
the less competitive games—may be seen to have the distortion of
keeping the mind/body/spirit complex unactivated so that yellow- and 
SESSION 34 297
orange-ray activity is much weakened, thus carefully decreasing the
possibility of eventual green-ray activation.
Others of your gadgets may be seen to be tools whereby the entity
explores the capabilities of its physical or mental complexes and, in some
few cases, the spiritual complex, thus activating the orange ray in what
you call your team sports and in other gadgets such as your modes of
transport. These may be seen to be ways of investigating the feelings of
power; more especially, power over others or a group power over another
group of other-selves.
34.13 QUESTIONER What is the general overall effect of television on our society
with respect to this catalyst?
R A I am Ra. Without ignoring the green-ray attempts of many to
communicate via this medium such information, truth, and beauty as
may be helpful, we must suggest that the sum effect of this gadget is that
of distraction and sleep.
34.14 QUESTIONER Can you give me the same type of information that we’ve
been working on now with respect to the self relationship with war and
rumors of war?
R A I am Ra. You may see this in relationship to your gadgets. This warand-self relationship is a fundamental perception of the maturing entity.
There is a great chance to accelerate in whatever direction is desired. One
may polarize negatively by assuming bellicose attitudes for whatever
reason. One may find oneself in the situation of war and polarize
somewhat towards the positive, activating orange, yellow, and then green
by heroic, if you may call them this, actions taken to preserve the
mind/body/spirit complexes of other-selves.
Finally, one may polarize very strongly third ray1 by expressing the
principle of universal love at the total expense of any distortion towards
involvement in bellicose actions. In this way the entity may become a
conscious being in a very brief span of your time/space. This may be seen
to be what you would call a traumatic progression. It is to be noted that
among your entities a large percentage of all progression has, as catalyst,
trauma.
 1 This should be fourth ray. Ra corrected the mistake in the next answer.
298 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
34.15 QUESTIONER You just used the term third ray in that statement. Was that
the term you meant to use?
R A I am Ra. We intended the green ray. Our difficulty lies in our
perception of red ray and violet ray as fixed; thus the inner rays are those
which are varying and are to be observed as those indications of seniority
in the attempts to form an harvest.
34.16 QUESTIONER Would the red ray, an intense red ray, then be used as an
index for seniority, the seniority system of incarnation, as well as the
intense violet ray?
R A I am Ra. This is partially correct. In the graduation or harvesting to
fourth-density positive, the red ray is seen only as that which, being
activated, is the basis for all that occurs in vibratory levels, the sum of this
being violet-ray energy.
This violet ray is the only consideration for fourth-density positive. In
assessing the harvestable fourth-density negative, the intensity of the red
as well as the orange and the yellow rays is looked upon quite carefully, as
a great deal of stamina and energy of this type is necessary for the negative
progression, it being extremely difficult to open the gateway to intelligent
infinity from the solar plexus center. This is necessary for harvest in
fourth-density negative.
34.17 QUESTIONER Is it possible for you to use as an example our General Patton
and tell me the effect that war had on him in his development?
R A I am Ra. This will be the last full question of this working. The one of
whom you speak, known as George, was one in whom the programming
of previous incarnations had created a pattern, or inertia, which was
irresistible in its incarnation in your time/space. This entity was of a
strong yellow-ray activation with frequent green-ray openings and
occasional blue-ray openings. However, it did not find itself able to break
the mold of previous traumatic experiences of a bellicose nature.
This entity polarized somewhat towards the positive in its incarnation due
to its singleness of belief in truth and beauty. This entity was quite
sensitive. It felt a great honor/duty to the preservation of that which was
felt by the entity to be true, beautiful, and in need of defense. This entity
perceived itself as a gallant figure. It polarized somewhat towards the 
SESSION 34 299
negative in its lack of understanding the green ray it carried with it,
rejecting the forgiveness principle which is implicit in universal love.
The sum total of this incarnation, vibrationally, was a slight increase in
positive polarity but a decrease in harvestability due to the rejection of the
Law or Way of Responsibility; that is, seeing universal love, yet still it
fought on.
34.18 QUESTIONER Do we have enough time for me to ask if the death, almost
immediately after the cessation of the war, of this entity . . . could that
have been so that it could be immediately reincarnated to possibly make
harvest?
R A I am Ra. This is precisely correct.
34.19 QUESTIONER Thank you. Then I will just ask if there is anything we can
do to make the instrument more comfortable or improve the contact?
R A I am Ra. All is well. We leave you, my friends, in the love and the
light of the One which is All in All. I leave you in an ever-lasting peace.
Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One
Infinite Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 35
MARCH 6, 1981
35.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
35.1 QUESTIONER I would like to say that we consider this a great privilege to
be doing this work, and hope that we are going to question in a direction
that will be of value to the readers of this material.
This session, I thought that possibly inspecting the effect on the rays of
different well-known figures in our history might be of help in
understanding how the catalyst of the illusion creates spiritual growth. I
was making a list here, and the first I thought we might possibly hit the
high points on (as to the effect of catalyst of the individual’s working life)
would be the one we know as Franklin D. Roosevelt. Could you say
something about that entity?
R A I am Ra. It is to be noted that in discussing those who are well known
among your peoples there is the possibility that information may be seen
to be specific to one entity whereas, in actuality, the great design of
experience is much the same for each entity. It is with this in mind that
we would discuss the experiential forces which offered catalyst to an
individual.
It is further to be noted that in the case of those entities lately incarnate
upon your plane much distortion may have taken place in regard to
misinformation and misinterpretation of an entity’s thoughts or
behaviors.
We shall now proceed to, shall we say, speak of the basic parameters of
the one known as Franklin. When any entity comes into third-density
incarnation, each of its energy centers is potentiated but must be activated
by the self using experience.
The one known as Franklin developed very quickly up through red,
orange, yellow, and green, and began to work in the blue-ray energy
center at a tender age, as you would say. This rapid growth was due,
firstly, to previous achievements in the activation of these rays; secondly,
to the relative comfort and leisure of its early existence; thirdly, due to the
strong desire upon the part of the entity to progress. This entity mated 
SESSION 35 301
with an entity whose blue-ray vibrations were of a strength more than
equal to its own, thus acquiring catalyst for further growth in that area
that was to persist throughout the incarnation.
This entity had some difficulty with continued green-ray activity due to
the excessive energy which was put into the activities regarding otherselves in the distortion towards acquiring power. This was to have its toll
upon the physical vehicle, as you may call it.
The limitation of the non-movement of a portion of the physical vehicle
opened once again, for this entity, the opportunity for concentration
upon the more, shall we say, universal, or idealistic, aspects of power; that
is, the non-abusive use of power. Thus at the outset of a bellicose action
this entity had lost some positive polarity due to excessive use of the
orange- and yellow-ray energies at the expense of green- and blue-ray
energies, then had regained the polarity due to the catalytic effects of a
painful limitation upon the physical complex.
This entity was not of a bellicose nature, but rather, during the conflict,
continued to vibrate in green ray working with the blue-ray energies. The
entity who was the one known as Franklin’s teacher also functioned
greatly during this period as blue-ray activator, not only for its mate but
also in a more universal expression. This entity polarized continuously in
a positive fashion in the universal sense while, in a less universal sense,
developing a pattern of what may be called karma; this karma having to
do with inharmonious-relationship distortions with the mate/teacher.
35.2 QUEST IONER Two things I would like to clear up. Then Franklin’s teacher
was his wife? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
35.3 QUESTIONER Secondly, did Franklin place the limitation on his physical
body himself?
R A I am Ra. This is partially correct. The basic guidelines for the lessons
and purposes of incarnation had been carefully set forth before
incarnation by the mind/body/spirit complex totality. If the one known
as Franklin had avoided the excessive enjoyment of or attachment to the
competitiveness which may be seen to be inherent in the processes of its
occupation, this entity would not have had the limitation.
302 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
However, the desire to serve and to grow was strong in this programming,
and when the opportunities began to cease due to these distortions
towards love of power, the entity’s limiting factor was activated.
35.4 QUESTIONER I would now like to ask for the same type of information
with respect to Adolf Hitler. You have given a little of this already. It is
not necessary to re-cover what you have already given, but if you could
complete that information it would be helpful.
R A I am Ra. In speaking of the one you call Adolf we have some difficulty
due to the intense amount of confusion present in this entity’s life
patterns as well as the great confusion which greets any discussion of this
entity.
Here we see an example of one who, in attempting activation of the
highest rays of energy while lacking the green-ray key, canceled itself out
as far as polarization either towards positive or negative. This entity was
basically negative. However, its confusion was such that the personality
disintegrated, thus leaving the mind/body/spirit complex unharvestable
and much in need of healing.
This entity followed the pattern of negative polarization which suggests
the elite and the enslaved, this being seen by the entity to be of an helpful
nature for the societal structure. However, in drifting from the conscious
polarization into what you may call a twilight world where dream took
the place of events in your space/time continuum, this entity failed in its
attempt to serve the Creator in an harvestable degree along the path of
service to self. Thus we see the so-called insanity which may often arise
when an entity attempts to polarize more quickly than experience may be
integrated.
We have advised and suggested caution and patience in previous
communications and do so again, using this entity as an example of the
over-hasty opening of polarization without due attention to the
synthesized and integrated mind/body/spirit complex. To know yourself
is to have the foundation upon firm ground.
35.5 QUESTIONER Thank you. An important example, I believe. I was
wondering if any of those who were subordinate to Adolf at that time
were able to polarize in a harvestable nature on the negative path?
R A I am Ra. We can speak only of two entities who may be harvestable in 
SESSION 35 303
a negative sense, others still being in the physical incarnation: one known
to you as Hermann; the other known, as it preferred to be called,
Himmler.
35.6 QUESTIONER Thank you. Earlier we discussed Abraham Lincoln as a rather
unique case.1 Is it possible for you to tell us what the orientation was and
why the fourth-density being used Abraham’s body, and when this took
place with respect to the activities that were occurring in our society at
that time?
R A I am Ra. This is possible.
35.7 Q U ESTIONER Would it be of value for the reader to know this in your
estimation?
R A I am Ra. You must shape your queries according to your discernment.
35.8 QUESTIONER Well in that case I would like to know the motivation for this
use of Abraham Lincoln’s body at that time?
R A I am Ra. This shall be the last full query of this session as we find the
instrument quite low in vital energies.
The one known as Abraham had an extreme difficulty in many ways and,
due to physical, mental, and spiritual pain, was weary of life but without
the orientation to self-destruction. In your time, 1853, this entity was
contacted in sleep by a fourth-density being. This being was concerned
with the battle between the forces of light and the forces of darkness
which have been waged in fourth density for many of your years.
This entity accepted the honor/duty of completing the one known as
Abraham’s karmic patterns, and the one known as Abraham discovered
that this entity would attempt those things which the one known as
Abraham desired to do but felt it could not. Thus the exchange was
made.
The entity, Abraham, was taken to a plane of suspension until the
cessation of its physical vehicle, much as though we of Ra would arrange
with this instrument to remain in the vehicle, come out of the trance
state, and function as this instrument, leaving this instrument’s mind and
spirit complex in its suspended state.
 1 Earlier discussed in 26.15–17.
304 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
The planetary energies at this time were at what seemed to this entity to
be at a critical point, for that which you know as freedom had gained in
acceptance as a possibility among many peoples. This entity saw the work
done by those beginning the democratic concept of freedom, as you call
it, in danger of being abridged, or abrogated, by the rising belief and use
of the principle of the enslavement of entities. This is a negative concept
of a fairly serious nature in your density. This entity, therefore, went
forward into what it saw as the battle for the light, for healing of a rupture
in the concept of freedom.
This entity did not gain or lose karma by these activities due to its
detachment from any outcome. Its attitude throughout was one of service
to others, more especially to the downtrodden or enslaved. The polarity
of the individual was somewhat, but not severely, lessened by the
cumulative feelings and thought-forms which were created due to large
numbers of entities leaving the physical plane due to trauma of battle.
May we ask if this is the information you requested, or if we may supply
any further information?
35.9 QUES TIONER If there are any further questions I will ask them in the next
period which should occur in about four days. I do not want to overtire
the instrument. I will only ask if there is anything that we can do to make
the instrument more comfortable or improve the contact?
R A I am Ra. All is well. I leave you, my friends, in the love and the light
of the One Infinite Creator. Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power
and the peace of the One Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 36
MARCH 10, 1981
36.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
36.1 QUESTIONER In previous communications you have spoken of the
mind/body/spirit complex totality. Would you please give us a definition
of the mind/body/spirit complex totality?
R A I am Ra. There is a dimension in which time does not have sway. In
this dimension the mind/body/spirit, in its eternal dance of the present,
may be seen in totality, and before the mind/body/spirit complex, which
then becomes a part of the social memory complex, is willingly absorbed
into the allness of the One Creator, the entity knows itself in its totality.
This mind/body/spirit complex totality functions as, shall we say, a
resource for what you perhaps would call the higher self. The higher self,
in turn, is a resource for examining the distillations of third-density
experience and programming further experience. This is also true of
densities four, five, and six with the mind/body/spirit complex totality
coming into consciousness in the course of seventh density.
36.2 QUESTIONER Then would the mind/body/spirit complex totality be
responsible for programming changes in catalyst during, say, a thirddensity experience of the mind/body/spirit complex so that the proper
catalyst would be added, shall we say, as conditions for that complex
changed during third-density experience? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. The higher self, as you call it—that is, that
self which exists with full understanding of the accumulation of
experiences of the entity—aids the entity in achieving healing of the
experiences which have not been learned properly and assists, as you have
indicated, in further life experience programming, as you may call it.
The mind/body/spirit complex totality is that which may be called upon
by the higher self aspect, just as the mind/body/spirit complex calls upon
the higher self. In the one case you have a structured situation within the
space/time continuum with the higher self having available to it the
totality of experiences which have been collected by an entity and a very
firm grasp of the lessons to be learned in this density.
306 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
The mind/body/spirit complex totality is as the shifting sands and is, in
some part, a collection of parallel developments of the same entity. This
information is made available to the higher self aspect. This aspect may
then use these projected probability/possibility vortices in order to better
aid in what you would call future life programming.
36.3 QUESTIONER Out of the Seth Material we have a statement here: Seth says
that each entity here on Earth is one aspect, or part, of a higher self, or
oversoul, which has many aspects, or parts, in many dimensions, all of
which learn lessons which enable the higher self to progress in a balanced
manner. Am I to understand from this, is it correct that there are, shall we
say, possibly many experiences similar to the one that we experience here
in the third density that are governed by a single higher self? Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. The correctness of this statement is variable. The more in
balance an entity becomes, the less the possibility/probability vortices may
need to be explored in parallel experiences.
36.4 QUESTIONER Do I understand from this then that the higher self, or
oversoul, may break down into numerous units if the experience is
required to, what we would call, simultaneously experience different types
of catalyst and then oversee these experiences?
R A I am Ra. This is a statement we cannot say to be correct or incorrect
due to the confusions of what you call time. True simultaneity is available
only when all things are seen to be occurring at once. This overshadows
the concept of which you speak. The concept of various parts of the being
living experiences of varying natures simultaneously is not precisely
accurate due to your understanding that this would indicate that this was
occurring with true simultaneity. This is not the case.
The case is from universe to universe, and parallel existences can then be
programmed by the higher self, given the information available from the
mind/body/spirit complex totality regarding the probability/possibility
vortices at any crux.
36.5 QUESTIONER Could you give an example of an entity, possibly one from
our historical past, possibly any entity that you might choose if you don’t
wish to name one, and give an example of how this type of programming
by the higher self would then bring about the education through parallel
experiences please?
SESSION 36 307
R A I am Ra. Perhaps the simplest example of this apparent simultaneity
of existence of two selves, which are in truth one self at the same
time/space, is this: the oversoul, as you call it, or higher self, seems to exist
simultaneously with the mind/body/spirit complex which it aids. This is
not actually simultaneous, for the higher self is moving to the
mind/body/spirit complex, as needed, from a position in development of
the entity which would be considered in the future of this entity.
36.6 QUESTIONER Then the higher self operates from the future, as we
understand things. In other words, my higher self would operate from
what I consider to be my future? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. From the standpoint of your space/time, this is correct.
36.7 QUESTIONER In that case my higher self would, shall we say, have a very
large advantage in knowing precisely what was needed since it would
know what . . . as far as I am concerned, what was going to happen. Is
this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect, in that this would be an abrogation of free
will. The higher self aspect is aware of the lessons learned through the
sixth density. The progress rate is fairly well understood. The choices
which must be made to achieve the higher self as it is are in the
provenance of the mind/body/spirit complex itself.
Thus the higher self is like the map in which the destination is known;
the roads are very well known, these roads being designed by intelligent
infinity working through intelligent energy. However, the higher self
aspect can program only for the lessons and certain predisposing
limitations if it wishes. The remainder is completely the free choice of
each entity. There is the perfect balance between the known and the
unknown.
36.8 QUESTIONER I’m sorry for having so much trouble with these concepts,
but they are pretty difficult to translate, I am sure, into our understanding
and language, and some of my questions may be rather ridiculous. But
does this higher self have a physical vehicle or some type of vehicle like
our physical vehicle? Does it have a bodily complex?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. The higher self is of a certain advancement
within sixth density going into the seventh. After the seventh has been
well entered, the mind/body/spirit complex becomes so totally a 
308 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
mind/body/spirit complex totality that it begins to gather spiritual mass
and approach the octave density. Thus the looking backwards is finished
at that point.
36.9 QUESTIONER Is the higher self of every entity of a sixth-density nature?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. This is an honor/duty of self to self as one
approaches seventh density.
36.10 QUESTIONER Well, let me be sure I understand this then. We have spoken
of certain particular individuals. For instance, we were speaking of George
Patton in a previous communication. Then his higher self at the time of
his incarnation here as George Patton about forty years ago, his higher
self was at that time sixth-density? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. We make note at this time that each entity
has several beings upon which to call for inner support. Any of these may
be taken by an entity to be the mind/body/spirit complex totality.
However, this is not the case.
The mind/body/spirit complex totality is a nebulous collection of all that
may occur held in understanding—the higher self itself a projection, or
manifestation, of mind/body/spirit complex totality—which then may
communicate with the mind/body/spirit during the discarnate part of a
cycle of rebirth, or during the incarnation may communicate if the proper
pathways or channels through the roots of mind are opened.
36.11 QUESTIONER These channels would then be opened by meditation, and I
am assuming that intense polarization would help in this. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is partially correct. Intense polarization does not
necessarily develop, in the mind/body/spirit complex, the will or need to
contact the oversoul. Each path of life experience is unique. However,
given the polarization, the will is greatly enhanced and vice-versa.
36.12 QUESTIONER Let me take as an example the one you said was called
Himmler. We are assuming from this that his higher self was of sixth
density, and it was stated that Himmler had selected the negative path.
Would his higher self then dwell in a sixth-density negative type of
situation? Could you expand on this concept?
SESSION 36 309
R A I am Ra. There are no [negative]1 beings which have attained the
oversoul manifestation, which is the honor/duty of the mind/body/spirit
complex totality of late sixth density, as you would term it in your time
measurements. These negatively oriented mind/body/spirit complexes
have a difficulty which, to our knowledge, has never been overcome, for
after fifth-density graduation wisdom is available but must be matched
with an equal amount of love. This love/light is very, very difficult to
achieve in unity when following the negative path, and during the earlier
part of the sixth density, society complexes of the negative orientation will
choose to release the potential and leap into the sixth-density positive.
Therefore, the oversoul which makes its understanding available to all
who are ready for such aid is towards the positive. However, the free will
of the individual is paramount, and any guidance given by the higher self
may be seen in either the positive or negative polarity depending upon
the choice of a mind/body/spirit complex.
36.13 QUESTIONER Then using Himmler as an example, was his higher self at the
time he was incarnate in the 1940s a sixth-density positively oriented
higher self?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
36.14 QUESTIONER Was Himmler in any way in contact with his higher self at
that time while he was incarnate in the 1940s?
R A I am Ra. We remind you that the negative path is one of separation.
What is the first separation? The self from the self.
The one known as Himmler did not choose to use its abilities of will and
polarization to seek guidance from any source but its conscious drives,
self-chosen in the life experience and nourished by previous biases created
in other life experiences.
36.15 QUESTIONER Well, then let’s say that when Himmler, for instance, reaches
sixth-density negative at the beginnings of sixth-density negative, at this
time would it be the case that an entity would realize that his higher self is
sixth-density positively oriented and, for that reason, make the jump from
negative to positive orientation?
 1 “Negative” is not heard in the audio, but the context indicates that it is what Ra
meant.
310 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. The sixth-density negative entity is
extremely wise. It observes the spiritual entropy occurring due to the lack
of ability to express the unity of sixth density. Thus, loving the Creator,
and realizing at some point that the Creator is not only self but other-self
as self, this entity consciously chooses an instantaneous energy
reorientation so that it may continue its evolution.
36.16 QUESTIONER Then the sixth-density entity who has reached that point in
positive orientation may choose to become what we call a wanderer and
move back. I am wondering if this ever occurs with a negatively oriented
sixth-density entity? Do any move back as wanderers?
R A I am Ra. Once the negatively polarized entity has reached a certain
point in the wisdom density it becomes extremely unlikely that it will
choose to risk the forgetting, for this polarization is not selfless but selfish
and, with wisdom, realizes the jeopardy of such “wandering.”
Occasionally a sixth-density negative entity becomes a wanderer in an
effort to continue to polarize towards the negative. This is extremely
unusual.
36.17 QUESTIONER Then what is the motivation for the . . . oh, let me finish that
question first.
What is the motiv— What is the mechanism that this unusual sixthdensity entity would wish to gain to polarize more negatively through
wandering?
R A I am Ra. The wanderer has the potential of greatly accelerating the
density whence it comes in its progress in evolution. This is due to the
intensive life experiences and opportunities of the third density. Thusly
the positively oriented wanderer chooses to hazard the danger of the
forgetting in order to be of service to others by radiating love of others. If
the forgetting is penetrated the amount of catalyst in third density will
polarize the wanderer with much greater efficiency than shall be expected
in the higher and more harmonious densities.
Similarly, the negatively oriented wanderer dares to hazard the forgetting
in order that it might accelerate its progress in evolution in its own
density by serving itself in third density, by offering to other-selves the
opportunity to hear the information having to do with negative
polarization.
SESSION 36 311
36.18 QUESTIONER Are there any examples of sixth-density negatively polarized
wanderers in our historical past?
R A I am Ra. This information could be harmful. We withhold it. Please
attempt to view the entities about you as part of the Creator. We can
explain no further.
36.19 QUESTIONER Thank you. I was wondering if qualification for contact with
Ra might include—of the type we’re doing now—might include
penetrating this forgetting process? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is quite correct.
36.20 QUESTIONER Otherwise the Law of Confusion would prohibit this? Is this
correct?
R A This is correct.
36.21 QUESTIONER I was also wondering if three was the minimum number
necessary for this type of working? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. For protection of this instrument, this is necessary as the
minimum grouping, and also as the most efficient number due to the
exceptional harmony in this group. In other groups the number could be
larger, but we have observed in this contact that the most efficient
support is given by the individual mind/body/spirits present at this time.
36.22 QUESTIONER I’m a little fuzzy on a point with respect to the higher self.
Now we each, I am assuming, have a separate or different higher self at
sixth-density positive level. Is this correct? Each of us in the room that is,
here, the three of us?
R A I am Ra. This shall be the last full question of this working. We shall
attempt to aim for the intention of your query as we understand it. Please
request any additional information.
Firstly, it is correct that each in this dwelling place has one oversoul, as
you may call it. However, due to the repeated harmonious interactions of
this triad of entities, there may be seen to be a further harmonious
interaction besides the three entities’ higher selves; that is, each social
memory complex has an oversoul of a type which is difficult to describe
to you in words. In this group there are two such social memory complex
totalities blending their efforts with your higher selves at this time.
312 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
36.23 QUESTIONER It is very difficult at times for us to even get a small
percentage of understanding from some of these concepts because of our
limitation of awareness here. I think some meditation on the
communication today will help us in formulating questions about these
concepts.
R A I am Ra. May we ask for any brief queries before we leave this
instrument?
36.24 QUESTIONER I’ll just ask one little short one that you may not be able to
answer before the final . . .
The short one is: Can you tell me what percentage of the wanderers on
Earth today have been successful in penetrating the memory block and
becoming aware who they are, and then finally, is there anything that we
can do to make the instrument more comfortable or improve the contact?
R A I am Ra. We can approximate the percentage of those penetrating
intelligently their status. This is between eight and one-half and nine and
three-quarters percent. There is a larger percentile group of those who
have a fairly well defined, shall we say, symptomology indicating to them
that they are not of this, shall we say, insanity. This amounts to a bit over
fifty percent of the remainder. Nearly one-third of the remainder are
aware that something about them is different.
So you see there are many gradations of awakening to the knowledge of
being a wanderer. We may add that it is to the middle and first of these
groups that this information will, shall we say, make sense.
This instrument is well. The resting place is somewhat deleterious in its
effect upon the comfort of the dorsal side of this instrument’s physical
vehicle. We have mentioned this before.
You are conscientious. We leave you now, my friends.
I am Ra. I leave you in the love and in the light of the Infinite Creator.
Go forth, then, rejoicing merrily in the power and the peace of the One
Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 37
MARCH 12, 1981
37.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. I communicate now.
37.1 QUESTIONER Is Ra familiar with the results of our efforts today to publish
the first book that we did?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
37.2 QUESTIONER I don’t know if you can comment on the difficulty we will
have in making the Law of One available to those who would require it
and want it. It is not something that is easy to disseminate to those who
want it at this time. I am sure there are many, especially the wanderers,
who want this information, but we will have to do something else in
order to get it into their hands in the way of added material, I am afraid.
Is it possible for you to comment on this?
R A I am Ra. It is possible.
37.3 QUESTIONER Will you comment on it?
R A I am Ra. We shall.
Firstly, the choosing of this group to do some work to serve others was of
an intensive nature. Each present sacrificed much for no tangible result.
Each may search its heart for the type of sacrifice, knowing that the
material sacrifices are the least; the intensive commitment to blending
into an harmonious group at the apex of sacrifice.
Under these conditions we found your vibration. We observed your
vibration. It will not be seen often. We do not wish to puff up the pride,
but we shall not chaffer with the circumstances necessary for our
particular contact.1 Thus you have received, and we willingly undertake,
the honor/duty of continuing to offer transmissions of concepts which
are, to the best of our abilities, precise in nature and grounded in the
attempt to unify many of those things that concern you.
 1 In this context, chaffer may be defined as “negotiate or haggle, particularly over
terms of agreement.”
314 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Secondly, the use you make of these transmissions is completely at your
discretion. We suggest the flowing of the natural intuitive senses and a
minimum of the distortion towards concern. We are content, as we have
said, to be able to aid in the evolution of one of your peoples. Whatever
efforts you make cannot disappoint us, for that number already exceeds
one.
37.4 QUESTIONER I have been very hesitant to ask certain questions for fear that
they would be regarded, as I regard them, as questions of unimportance
or too great a specificity and, thereby, reduce our contact with you. In
order to disseminate some of the information that I consider to be of
extreme importance—that is, the non-transient type of information,
information having to do with the evolution of mind, body, and spirit—
it seems almost necessary, in our society, to include information that is of
little value, simply because that’s how our . . . our society works and how
the system of distribution appraises that which is offered for distribution.
Could you comm— Will . . . will you comment on this problem that I
have?
R A I am Ra. We comment as follows: It is quite precisely correct that the
level and purity of this contact is dependent upon the level and purity of
information sought. Thusly, the continued requests for specific
information, from this particular source, is deleterious to the substance of
your purpose.
Moreover, as we scanned your mind to grasp your situation as regards the
typescript of some of our words, we found that you had been criticized
for the type of language construction used to convey data. Due to our
orientation with regard to data, even the most specifically answered
question would be worded by our group in such a way as to maximize the
accuracy of the nuances of the answer. This, however, mitigates against
what your critic desires in the way of simple, lucid prose.
More than this we cannot say. These are our observations of your
situation. What you wish to do is completely your decision, and we
remain at your service in whatever way we may be without breaking the
Way of Confusion.
37.5 QUESTIONER We will attempt to work around these problems in
dissemination of the Law of One. It will take some careful work to do
this, but we will. I personally will not cease while still incarnate to 
SESSION 37 315
attempt to disseminate this. I believe it will be necessary to write a book,
most probably about UFOs, since the Law of One is connected with the
phenomenon. It’s connected with all phenomena, but this is the . . .
seems to be the easiest entry into dissemination.
My first plan is to, using the UFO in the advertising sense that it was
meant by the Confederation, use this as an entry into an explanation of
the process of evolution that has gone on on this planet, and how the rest
of the . . . or the Confederation has been involved in a more
understandable way, shall I say, for the population who will read it, using
the Ra material in undistorted form just as it has been recorded here in
various places through the book to amplify and clarify what we are saying
in the book. This is the only way that I can see right now to create
enough dissemination for the people who would like to have the Law of
One for them to be able to get it. I could just go ahead and print up the
material we have off the tape recorder and publish it, but we would be
unable to disseminate it very well because of distribution problems.
Will you comment on my second idea of doing a general book on UFOs
including the material from the Law of One?
R A I am Ra. We shall comment. We hope that your Ra plans materialize.
This is a cosmic joke. You were asking for such an example of humor, and
we feel this is a rather appropriate nexus in which one may be inserted.
Continue with your intentions to the best of your natures and abilities.
What more can be done, my friends?
37.6 QUESTIONER In that case, we’ll go ahead with the questions we have here,
continuing the last session.
You said that each third-density entity has an higher self in the sixth
density which is moving to the mind/body/spirit complex of the entity as
needed. Does this higher self also evolve in growth through the densities
beginning with the first density, and does each higher self have a
corresponding higher self advanced in densities beyond it?
R A I am Ra. To simplify this concept is our intent. The higher self is a
manifestation given to the late sixth-density mind/body/spirit complex as
a gift from its future selfness. The mid-seventh density’s last action before
turning towards the allness of the Creator and gaining spiritual mass is to
give this resource to the sixth-density self, moving, as you measure time,
in the stream of time.
316 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
This self, the mind/body/spirit complex of late sixth density, has then the
honor/duty of using both the experiences of its total living bank, or
memory, of experienced thoughts and actions and using the resource of
the mind/body/spirit complex totality left behind as a type of infinitely
complex thought-form.
In this way you may see your self, your higher self or oversoul, and your
mind/body/spirit complex totality as three points in a circle. The only
distinction is that of your time/space continuum. All are the same being.
37.7 QUESTIONER Does each entity have an individual mind/body/spirit
complex totality, or do a number of entities share the same
mind/body/spirit complex totality?
R A I am Ra. Both of these statements are correct, given the appropriate
time/space conditions. Each entity has its totality, and at the point at
which a planetary entity becomes a social memory complex, the totality of
this union of entities also has its oversoul and its social memory complex
totality as resource. As always, the sum,2 spiritually speaking, is greater
than the sum of its parts, so that the oversoul of a social memory complex
is not the sum of the oversouls of its member entities but operates upon
the way of what we have called squares and what we grasp you prefer to
call doubling.
37.8 QUESTIONER Thank you. Thank you for that explanation of the
mathematics, too. That was bothering me.
Could you define spiritual mass?
R A I am Ra. This will be the last full question of this session.
Spiritual mass is that which begins to attract the out-moving and ongoing
vibratory oscillations of beingness into the gravity, speaking in a spiritual
sense, well of the Great Central Sun, core, or Creator of the infinite
universes.
37.9 QUESTIONER Since we don’t want to tire the instrument I will just ask if
there is anything we can do to make the instrument more comfortable or
improve the contact?
R A I am Ra. All is well. We leave you now in the love and the light of the
 2 Ra presumably meant to say “the whole” here.
SESSION 37 317
One Infinite Creator. Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power and the
peace of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 38
MARCH 13, 1981
38.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
38.1 QUESTIONER Will you tell us if there would be any hope or any purpose in
either Jim or I taking the instrument’s place at the beginning of the
session and attempting to replace the instrument as instrument by
attempting the trance work ourselves?
R A I am Ra. This information is on the borderline of infringement upon
free will. We shall, however, assume your desire to constitute permission
to speak slightly beyond limits set by Confederation guidelines, shall we
say.
At this space/time nexus neither the one known as Don nor the one
known as Jim is available for this working. The one known as Don, by,
shall we say, practicing the mechanics of contact and service to others by
means of the channeling, as you call it, would in a certain length of your
time become able to do this working. The one known as Jim would find
it difficult to become a channel of this type without more practice also
over a longer period of time. Then we should have to experiment with the
harmonics developed by this practice. This is true in both cases.
38.2 QUESTIONER Thank you. Backtracking just a little bit today, I would like
to know if the reason the nuclear energy was brought into this density
forty or so years ago had anything to do with giving the entities that were
here, who had caused the destruction of Maldek, another chance to use
nuclear energy peacefully rather than destructively? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect in that it places cart before horse, as your
people say. The desire for this type of information attracted this data to
your people. It was not given for a reason from outside influences; rather,
it was desired by your peoples. From this point forward your reasoning is
correct in that entities had desired the second chance which you
mentioned.
38.3 QUESTIONER What was the mechanism of fulfilling the desire for the
information regarding nuclear energy?
SESSION 38 319
R A I am Ra. As we understand your query, the mechanism was what you
may call inspiration.
38.4 QUESTIONER Was this inspiration a— Would an entity impress the person
desiring the information with thoughts? Would this be the mechanism of
inspiration?
R A I am Ra. The mechanism of inspiration involves an extraordinary
faculty of desire, or will, to know or to receive in a certain area
accompanied by the ability to open to and trust in what you may call
intuition.
38.5 QUESTIONER Could you tell me how each of the rays, red through violet,
would appear in a perfectly balanced, undistorted entity?
R A I am Ra. We cannot tell you this for each balance is perfect and each
unique. We do not mean to be obscure.
Let us offer an example. In a particular entity—let us use this
instrument—the rays may be viewed as extremely even, red, orange,
yellow. The green ray is extremely bright. This is, shall we say, balanced
by a dimmer indigo. Between these two the point of balance resides, the
blue ray of the communicator sparkling in strength above the ordinary.
In the violet ray we see this unique spectrograph, if you will, and at the
same time the pure violet surrounding the whole. This in turn,
surrounded by that which mixes the red and violet ray, indicating the
integration of mind, body, and spirit. This surrounded in turn by the
vibratory pattern of this entity’s true density.
This description may be seen to be both unbalanced and in perfect
balance. The latter understanding is extremely helpful in dealing with
other-selves. The ability to feel blockages is useful only to the healer.
There is not properly a tiny fraction of judgment when viewing a balance
in colors. Of course, when we see many of the energy plexi weakened and
blocked, we may understand that an entity has not yet grasped the baton
and begun the race. However, the potentials are always there. All the rays
fully balanced are there in waiting to be activated.
Perhaps another way to address your query is this: In the fully potentiated
entity, the rays mount one upon the other with equal vibratory brilliance 
320 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
and scintillating sheen until the surrounding color is white. This is what
you may call potentiated balance in third density.
38.6 QUESTIONER Is it possible for a third-density planet to form a social
memory complex which operates in third density?
R A I am Ra. It is possible only in the latter, or seventh, portion of such a
density when entities are harmoniously readying for graduation.
38.7 QUESTIONER Could you give me an example of a planet of this nature,
both a third-density service-to-others type and a third-density self-service
type at this level of . . . of attainment conditions?
R A I am Ra. As far as we are aware, there are no negatively oriented thirddensity social memory complexes. Positively oriented social memory
complexes of third density are not unheard of, but quite rare. However,
an entity from the star Sirius’ planetary body has approached this
planetary body twice. This entity is late third-density and is part of a
third-density social memory complex. This has been referred to in the
previous material.1 The social memory complex is properly a fourthdensity phenomenon.
38.8 QUESTIONER I was wondering if that particular social memory complex
from the Sirius star evolved from trees?
R A I am Ra. This approaches correctness. Those second-density
vegetation forms which graduated into third density upon this planet
bearing the name of Dog were close to the tree as you know it.
38.9 QUESTIONER I was also wondering then if, since action of a bellicose
nature is impossible as far as I understand for vegetation, would not they
have the advantage as they move into third density from second as to not
carrying a racial memory of a bellicose nature and, therefore, develop a
more harmonious society and accelerate their evolution in this nature? Is
this true?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. However, to become balanced and begin to
polarize properly it is then necessary to investigate movements of all
kinds, especially bellicosity.
38.10 QUESTIONER I am assuming, then, that their investigations of bellicosity
 1 Referred to in 8.21–22.
SESSION 38 321
were primarily the type that they extracted from Hickson’s memory
rather than warfare among themselves? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. Entities of this heritage would find it nearly
impossible to fight. Indeed, their studies of movements of all kinds is
their form of meditation due to the fact that their activity is upon the
level of what you would call meditation and thus must be balanced, just
as your entities need constant moments of meditation to balance your
activities.
38.11 QUESTIONER I believe this is an important point for us in understanding
the balancing aspect of meditation since we have here its antithesis in
another type of evolution. These entities moved, we are told by Charlie
Hickson, without moving their legs. They . . . I am assuming they use a
principle that is somewhat similar to the principle of movement of your
crystal bells in moving their physical vehicles. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is partially incorrect.
38.12 QUESTIONER But I am just assuming that they . . . their method of
movement is not a function of mechanical leverage such as ours, but a
direct function of the mind somehow connected with the magnetic action
of a planet. Is this right?
R A I am Ra. This is largely correct. It is an electromagnetic phenomenon
which is controlled by thought impulses of a weak electrical nature.
38.13 QUESTIONER Was their craft visible to . . . would it have been visible to
anyone of our density on our planet who might have seen it or might
have been in that area at that time? Is it a third-density material the same
as this chair or anything we have here?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. Please ask one more full question before we
close as this instrument has low vital energy at this space/time.
38.14 QUESTIONER All right, I’ll just ask this one. I have here that—
Could you give me some idea of what conditions are like on a fourthdensity negative, or self-service, planet? Can you do this?
R A I am Ra. The graduation into fourth-density negative is achieved by
those beings who have consciously contacted intelligent infinity through
the use of red, orange, and yellow rays of energy. Therefore, the planetary 
322 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
conditions of fourth-density negative include the constant alignment and
realignment of entities in efforts to form the dominant patterns of
combined energy.
The early fourth density is one of the most intensive struggle. When the
order of authority has been established and all have fought until
convinced that each is in the proper placement for power structure, the
social memory complex begins. Always the fourth-density effects of
telepathy and the transparency of thought are attempted to be used for
the sake of those at the apex of the power structure.
This, as you may see, is often quite damaging to the further polarization
of fourth-density negative entities, for the further negative polarization
can only come about through group effort. As the fourth-density entities
manage to combine, they then polarize through such services to self as
those offered by the crusaders of Orion.
You may ask more specific questions in the next session of working. Are
there any brief queries before we leave this instrument?
38.15 QUESTIONER I would just like to know if there is anything that we can do
to make the instrument more comfortable or improve the contact?
R A I am Ra. All is well. We leave you in the love and light of the One
Infinite Creator. Go forth rejoicing in the power and in the peace of the
One Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 39
MARCH 16, 1981
39.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. I communicate now.
39.1 QUESTIONER The instrument was wondering if her fragile feeling was the
result of the chemical ingestion of about six weeks ago?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. This instrument is now undergoing the most
intensive period of physical-complex debilitation/distortion due to the
doubling effects of the two ingestions. This instrument may expect this
extremity to proceed for a period of fifteen to twenty of your diurnal
cycles. The weakness distortions will then begin to lift, however, not as
rapidly as we first thought due to this instrument’s ongoing weakness
distortions.
This instrument is very fortunate in having a support group which
impresses upon it the caution necessary as regards these sessions at this
time. This instrument is capable of almost instantaneously clearing the
mental/emotional complex and the spiritual complex for the purity this
working requires, but this instrument’s distortion towards fidelity to
service does not function to its best use of judgment regarding the
weakness distortions of the physical complex. Thus we appreciate your
assistance at space/times such as that in your most recent decision-making
not to have a working. This was the appropriate decision, and the
guidance given this instrument was helpful.
39.2 QUESTIONER Is there anything that the instrument could do, in addition
to what she is attempting to do, to help her condition get better faster? I
know that she hasn’t been able to exercise because of her foot problem for
the last couple of days . . . not able to walk, but we are hoping to get back
to that. Is there anything else that she could do?
R A I am Ra. As we have implied, the negative entities are moving all stops
out to undermine this instrument at this time. This is the cause of the
aforementioned problem with the pedal digit. It is fortunate that this
instrument shall be greatly involved in the worship of the One Infinite
Creator through the vibratory complexes of sacred song during this
period. The more active physical existence, both in the movements of 
324 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
exercise and in the sexual sense, are helpful. However, the requirements of
this instrument’s distortions towards what you would call ethics have an
effect upon this latter activity.
Again, it is fortunate that this instrument has the opportunities for loving
social intercourse which are of some substantial benefit. Basically, in your
third-density continuum, this is a matter of time.
39.3 QUESTIONER From your reading of the instrument’s condition can you
approximate how often and the length of workings that we could plan in
our future workings?
R A I am Ra. This query borders upon infringement. The information
given sets up fairly followable guidelines. However, we are aware that not
only can each of you not read this instrument’s aura and so see conditions
of the physical complex, but also the instrument itself has considerable
difficulty penetrating the precise distortion-condition of its physical
complex due to its constant dependence upon its will to serve.
Therefore, we believe we are not infringing if we indicate that one
working each alternate diurnal period in the matinal hours is most
appropriate with the possibility of a shorter working upon the free
matinal period if deemed appropriate. This is so not only during this
period but in general.
39.4 QUESTIONER I will then continue now with the general questioning,
attempting to find a way into a line of questioning which will get us into
an area of understanding non-transient functions which may be worked
upon by us and others to raise our consciousness, and I may make several
mistakes here in trying to find a way into this questioning. I apologize in
advance if my questioning is misleading.
I notice that everything seems—or most of the basic things seem—to be
divided into units which total seven. In looking at a transcript by Henry
Puharich from The Nine, I found a statement by The Nine where they
say, “If we get seven times the electrical equivalent of the human body
then it would result in sevenon of the mass of electricity.” Could you
explain this?
R A I am Ra. To explain this is beyond the abilities of your language. We
shall, however, make an attempt to address this concept.
As you are aware, in the beginning of the creations set up by each Logos, 
SESSION 39 325
there are created the complete potentials, both electrical (in the sense of
the one you call Larson) and metaphysical. This metaphysical electricity is
as important in the understanding, shall we say, of this statement as is the
concept of electricity.
This concept, as you are aware, deals with potentiated energy. The
electron has been said to have no mass but only a field. Others claim a
mass of infinitesimal measure. Both are correct. The true mass of the
potentiated energy is the strength of the field. This is also true
metaphysically.
However, in your present physical system of knowledge it is useful to take
the mass number of the electron in order to do work that you may find
solutions to other questions about the physical universe. In such a way,
you may conveniently consider each density of being to have a greater and
greater spiritual mass. The mass increases, shall we say, significantly, but
not greatly, until the gateway density. In this density the summing up,
the looking backwards—in short, all the useful functions of polarity have
been used. Therefore, the metaphysical electrical nature of the individual
grows greater and greater in spiritual mass.
For an analog one may observe the work of the one known as Albert who
posits the growing to infinity of mass as this mass approaches the speed of
light. Thus the seventh-density being, the completed being, the Creator
who knows Itself, accumulates mass and compacts into the One Creator
once again.
39.5 Q UESTIONER Then in the equation that I have here on this page, would Mᵢ
refer to spiritual mass, I am assuming. Is this correct?
Mᵢ = m₀C²
�1 − v² / c²
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
39.6 QUESTIONER Thank you. Can you tell me— Can you interpret a
transmission from The Nine where they say, “CH is a principle which is
the revealing principle of knowledge and law?” Can you tell me what that
principle is?
R A I am Ra. The principle so veiled in that statement is but the simple
principle of the constant (or Creator) and the transient (or the incarnate 
326 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
being) and the yearning existing between the two, one for the other, in
love and light amidst the distortions of free will acting upon the illusionbound entity.
39.7 QUESTIONER Was the reason that The Nine transmitted this principle in
this form the— Was the reason for this the First Distortion?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect.
39.8 QUESTIONER Can you tell me why they gave the principle in such a veiled
form then?
R A I am Ra. The scribe is most interested in puzzles and equations.
39.9 QUESTIONER I see. The Nine describe themselves as the “nine principals of
God.”1 Can you tell me what they mean by that?
R A I am Ra. This is also a veiled statement. The attempt is made to
indicate that the nine who sit upon the Council are those representing the
Creator, the One Creator, just as there may be nine witnesses in a
courtroom testifying for one defendant. The term principal has this
meaning also.
The desire of the scribe may be seen in much of this material to have
affected the manner of its presentation, just as the abilities and
preferences of this group determine the nature of this contact. The
difference lies in the fact that we are as we are. Thus we may either speak
as we will or not speak at all. This demands a very tuned, shall we say,
group.
39.10 QUESTIONER I sense that there is fruitful ground for investigation of our
development in tracing the evolution of the bodily energy centers because
these seven centers seem to be linked with all of the sevens that I spoke of
previously and be central to our own development.
Could you describe the process of evolution of these bodily energy centers
starting with the most primitive form of life to have them?
R A I am Ra. This material has been covered previously to some extent.2
 1 The Nine are usually referred to as “principles” rather than “principals,” but since
Ra refers to them as witnesses we have chosen the spelling to match.
2 Possibly previously covered in 16.21, 27.17, and 32.12, though it is uncertain to
which specific passages Ra is referring.
SESSION 39 327
Therefore, we shall not repeat information upon which rays dwell in first
and second density and the wherefores of this but rather attempt to
enlarge upon this information.
The basic pivotal points of each level of development—that is, each
density beyond second—may be seen to be as follows:
Firstly, the basic energy of so-called red ray. This ray may be understood
to be the basic strengthening ray for each density. It shall never be
condescended to as less important or productive of spiritual evolution, for
it is the foundation ray.
The next foundation ray is yellow. This is the great stepping stone ray. At
this ray the mind/body potentiates to its fullest balance. The strong
red/orange/yellow triad springboards the entity into the center ray of
green. This is again a basic ray but not a primary ray.
This is the resource for spiritual work. When green ray has been activated
we find the third primary ray being able to begin potentiation. This is the
first true spiritual ray in that all transfers are of an integrated
mind/body/spirit nature. The blue ray seats the learning/teachings of the
spirit in each density within the mind/body complex, animating the
whole, communicating to others this entirety of beingness.
The indigo ray, though precious, is that ray worked upon only by the
adept, as you would call it. It is the gateway to intelligent infinity
bringing intelligent energy through. This is the energy center worked
upon in those teachings considered inner, hidden, and occult, for this ray
is that which is infinite in its possibilities. As you are aware, those who
heal, teach, and work for the Creator in any way which may be seen to be
both radiant and balanced are those activities which are indigo ray.
As you are aware, the violet ray is constant and does not figure into a
discussion of the functions of ray activation in that it is the mark, the
register, the identity, the true vibration of an entity.
39.11 QUESTIONER In order to clarify a little bit I would like to ask the question,
if we have a highly polarized entity polarized towards service to others,
and a highly polarized entity polarized towards service to self, what would
be . . . taking each ray, starting with red, would there be a difference in
the red ray of these two entities?
R A I am Ra. This shall be the last full question of this working.
328 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
There is no difference in equally strongly polarized positive and negative
entities as regards red ray.
39.12 QUESTIONER Is this also true of all the other rays?
R A I am Ra. We shall answer briefly. You may question further at
another working.
The negative ray pattern is the red/orange/yellow moving directly to the
blue,3 this being only used in order to contact intelligent infinity.
In positively oriented entities the configuration is even, crystallinely clear,
and of the seven-ray description.
Are there any short queries before we leave this instrument?
39.13 QUESTIONER I only need to know if there is anything that we can do to
make the instrument more comfortable or help the contact?
R A I am Ra. You are most conscientious. All is well. I leave you, my
friends, in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. Go forth,
therefore, rejoicing in the power and in the peace of the One Creator.
Adonai.
 3 In 47.4, Ra said that the negative pattern moves from red/orange/yellow directly to
indigo. Presumably, then, Ra made a mistake in this response (39.12) when they
said “blue.” See 32.2, 34.16, 38.14, and 47.3–4 for other statements indicating that
the blue ray is not used by the negative polarizing entity to contact intelligent
infinity.
Though, interpreted in a certain light, 48.10, 75.23, and 85.11 may indicate the
presence of the blue-ray in the negative entity’s contact with intelligent infinity.
SESSION 40
MARCH 18, 1981
40.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
40.1 QUESTIONER I thought that I would make a statement and let you correct
it. I’m trying to make a simple model of the portion of the universe that
we find ourselves in. Starting with the Logos, or sub-Logos, our sun, we
have white light emanating from this. This is made up of frequencies
ranging from the red to the violet. I am assuming that this white light,
then, contains the experiences through all of the densities, and as we go
into the eighth density we go into a black hole which emerges on the
other side as another Logos, or sun, and starts another octave of
experience.
Can you comment on this part of my statement?
R A I am Ra. We can comment upon this statement to an extent. The
concept of the white light of the sub-Logos being prismatically separated
and later, at the final chapter, being absorbed again is basically correct.
However, there are subtleties involved which are more than semantic.
The white light which emanates and forms the articulated sub-Logos has
its beginning in what may be metaphysically seen as darkness. The light
comes into that darkness and transfigures it, causing the chaos to organize
and become reflective or radiant. Thus the dimensions come into being.
Conversely, the blackness of the black hole, metaphysically speaking, is a
concentration of white light being systematically absorbed once again into
the One Creator. Finally, this absorption into the One Creator continues
until all the infinity of creations have attained sufficient spiritual mass in
order that all form, once again, the Great Central Sun, if you would so
imagine it, of the intelligent infinity awaiting potentiation by Free Will.
Thus the transition of the octave is a process which may be seen to enter
into timelessness of unimaginable nature. To attempt to measure it by
your time measures would be useless.
Therefore, the concept of moving through the black hole of the ultimate
spiritual gravity well and coming immediately into the next octave misses 
330 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
the sub-concept, or corollary, of the portion of this process which is
timeless.
40.2 QUESTIONER Our astronomers have noticed that the light from spiral
galaxies is approximately seven times less than it should be, from their
calculations of what their mass should be. I was just wondering if that was
due to the increase of spiritual mass in the galaxies in what we call white
dwarf stars?
R A I am Ra. This is basically correct and is a portion of the way, or
process, of creation’s cycle.
40.3 QUESTIONER Thank you. I was also wondering if the first density
corresponded somehow to the color red, the second to the color orange,
the third to the color yellow and so on through the densities
corresponding to the colors, in perhaps a way so that the basic vibration
that forms the photon that forms the core of all atomic particles would
have a relationship to that color in the density. And that that vibration
would step up for second, third, and fourth density corresponding to the
increase in the vibration of the colors. Is this in any way correct?
R A I am Ra. This is more correct than you have stated.
Firstly, you are correct in positing a quantum, if you will, as the nature of
each density and further correct in assuming that these quanta may be
seen to be of vibratory natures corresponding to color, as you grasp this
word. However, it is also true, as you have suspected but not asked, that
each density is of the metaphysical characteristic complex of its ray.
Thus, in first density the red ray is the foundation for all that is to come.
In second density the orange ray is that of movement and growth of the
individual, this ray striving towards the yellow ray of self-conscious
manifestations of a social nature as well as individual; third density being
the equivalent, and so forth—each density being primarily its ray plus the
attractions of the following ray pulling it forward in evolution and, to
some extent, coloring, or shading, the chief color of that density.
40.4 QUESTIONER Then the bodily energy centers for an individual would be,
assuming that the individual evolves in a straight line from first through
to eighth density . . . would each of these energy centers, centers or
chakras, be activated to completion if everything worked as it should? 
SESSION 40 331
Would each be activated to completion and greatest intensity by the end
of the experience in each density?
R A I am Ra. Hypothetically speaking, this is correct. However, the fully
activated being is rare. Much emphasis is laid upon the harmonies and
balances of individuals. It is necessary for graduation across densities for
the primary energy centers to be functioning in such a way as to
communicate with intelligent infinity and to appreciate and bask in this
light in all of its purity.
However, to fully activate each energy center is the mastery of few, for
each center has a variable speed of rotation or activity. The important
observation to be made, once all necessary centers are activated to the
minimal necessary degree, is the harmony and balance between these
energy centers.
40.5 QUESTIONER Thank you. Taking as an example the transition between
second and third density: when this transition takes place, does the
frequency of vibration which forms the photon (the core of all particles of
the density), does this frequency increase from a frequency corresponding
to second density or orange, the color orange, the frequency we measure
for the color orange, to the frequency we measure for the color yellow?
What I am getting at is, do all the vibrations that form the density, basic
vibrations of the photon, increase in a quantum fashion over a relatively
short period of time?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. Then you see within each density the gradual
upgrading of vibratory levels.
40.6 QUESTIONER Would— This is a guess. Would the frequency going from
second to third increase from the middle orange frequency, or average
orange frequency, to the middle yellow frequency, or average yellow
frequency?
R A I am Ra. This query is indeterminate. We shall attempt to be of aid.
However, the frequency that is the basis of each density is what may be
called a true color. This term is impossible to define given your system of
sensibilities and scientific measurements, for color has vibratory
characteristics both in space/time and in time/space. The true color is
then overlaid and tinged by the rainbow of the various vibratory levels 
332 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
within that density and the attraction vibrations of the next true-color
density.
40.7 QUESTIONER How long was the time of transition on this planet between
second and third density? Generation and a half, I believe. Is that correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct, the time measured in your years being
approximately one thousand three hundred and fifty [1,350].
40.8 QUESTIONER Then what will be the time of transition on this planet from
third to fourth density?
R A I am Ra. This is difficult to estimate due to the uncharacteristic
anomalies of this transition. There are at this space/time nexus beings
incarnate which have begun fourth-density work. However, the thirddensity climate of planetary consciousness is retarding the process. At this
particular nexus the possibility/probability vortices indicate somewhere
between one hundred [100] and seven hundred [700] of your years as
transition period. This cannot be accurate due to the volatility of your
peoples at this space/time.
40.9 QUESTIONER Has the vibration of the basic . . . of the photon, of all our
particles increased in frequency already?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. It is this influence which has begun to cause
thoughts to become things. As an example, you may observe the thoughts
of anger becoming those cells of the physical bodily complex going out of
control to become what you call the cancer.
40.10 QUESTIONER What, assuming that we are, our vibration— I am assuming
this vibration started increasing about between twenty and thirty years
ago. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. The first harbingers of this were approximately forty-five of
your years ago, the energies vibrating more intensely through the fortyyear period preceding the final movement of vibratory matter, shall we
say, through the quantum leap, as you would call it.
40.11 QUESTIONER Starting then, forty-five years ago, and taking the entire
increase in vibration that we will experience in this density change,
approximately what percentage of the way through this increase of
vibration are we right now?
SESSION 40 333
R A I am Ra. The vibratory nature of your environment is true-color
green. This is at this time heavily over-woven with the orange ray of
planetary consciousness. However, the nature of quanta is such that the
movement over the boundary is that of discrete placement of vibratory
level.
40.12 QUESTIONER You mentioned that thoughts of anger now are causing
cancer. Can you expand on this mechanism as it acts as a catalyst or its
complete purpose?
R A I am Ra. The fourth density is one of revealed information. Selves are
not hidden to self or other-selves. The imbalances or distortions which are
of a destructive nature show, therefore, in more obvious ways, the vehicle
of the mind/body/spirit complex thus acting as a teaching resource for
self-revelation. These illnesses such as cancer are correspondingly very
amenable to self-healing once the mechanism of the destructive influence
has been grasped by the individual.
40.13 QUESTIONER Then you are saying that cancer is quite easily healed
mentally and is a good teaching tool because it is quite easily healed
mentally, and once the entity forgives the other-self at whom he is angry,
cancer will disappear. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is partially correct. The other portion of healing has to
do with forgiveness of self and a greatly heightened respect for the self.
This may conveniently be expressed by taking care in dietary matters.
This is quite frequently a part of the healing and forgiving process. Your
basic premise is correct.
40.14 QUESTIONER In dietary matters, what would be the foods that one would
include, and what would be the foods that one would exclude, in a
general way, for the most or the greatest care of one’s bodily complex?
R A I am Ra. Firstly, we underline and emphasize that this information is
not to be understood literally but as a link, or psychological nudge, for
the body and the mind and spirit. Thus it is the care and respect for the
self that is the true thing of importance. In this light we may iterate the
basic information given for this instrument’s diet. The vegetables, the
fruits, the grains, and to the extent necessary for the individual
metabolism, the animal products. These are those substances showing
respect for the self.
334 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
In addition, though this has not been mentioned, for this instrument is
not in need of purification, those entities in need of purging the self of a
poison thought-form or emotion complex do well to take care in
following a program of careful fasting until the destructive thought-form
has been purged analogously with the by-products of ridding the physical
vehicle of excess material. Again you see the value not to the body
complex, but used as a link for the mind and spirit. Thus self reveals self
to self.
40.15 QUESTIONER Thank you. A very important concept. Does the fact that
basic vibration that we experience now is green true color, or fourth
density, account for the fact that there are many mental effects upon
material objects that are now observable for the first time in a mass way,
like the bending of metal by mind?
R A I am Ra. This shall be the final query, in total, of this working. This is
not only correct but we suggest you take this concept further and
understand the great number of entities with the so-called mental diseases
being due to the effect of this green-ray true color upon the mental
configurations of those unready, mentally, to face the self for the first
time.
Are there any brief queries before we close?
40.16 QUESTIONER Just two. With respect to what you just said, would then
people incarnating here by seniority of vibration who incarnate for the
service-to-self path be ones who would have extreme difficulty, mentally,
with this green-ray vibration?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. It is rather the numbers who have
distracted themselves and failed to prepare for this transition, yet who are
somewhat susceptible to its influence, who may be affected.
40.17 QUESTIONER Thank you. I’ll just ask if there’s anything that we can do to
make the instrument more comfortable or improve the contact?
R A This instrument is well. You are conscientious. The appurtenances
cause this instrument greater comfort in the distortion of the warmth of
the body complex.
I am Ra. I leave you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the One
Infinite Creator. Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power and the peace of
the One Infinite Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 41
MARCH 20, 1981
41.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
41.1 QUESTIONER I have one question of logistics to start with. I know it’s a
dumb question, but I have to ask it to be sure.
There is a possibility that we may have to move from this location to a
location a thousand or more miles from here in the future. Will this have
any effect at all on our contact with Ra?
R A I am Ra. This is not a foolish question. The location is meaningless,
for are we not in the creation? However, the place of the working shall be
either carefully adjudged by your selves to be of the appropriate vibratory
levels, or it shall be suggested that the purification of the place be enacted
and dedication made through meditation before initial working. This
might entail such seemingly mundane chores as the cleansing or painting
of surfaces which you may deem to be inappropriately marred.
41.2 QUESTIONER I am familiar with the Banishing Ritual of the Lesser
Pentagram. I was just wondering if this ritual was of use in preparing a
place for this type of working?1
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
41.3 QUESTIONER Then generally, what you’re saying is that even if we moved
over a thousand miles away, if we carefully prepared a place that we
found, even though it had been used by others previously, it could be
made satisfactory. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. Yes.
41.4 QUESTIONER In trying to build an understanding from the start, you
might say, starting with intelligent infinity and getting to our present
condition of being, I am having some difficulty, but I think I should go
 1 An explanation of the Banishing Ritual can be found in various Hermetic Order of
the Golden Dawn works, including as an appendix in W.E. Butler’s book The
Magician, His Training, and His Work.
336 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
back and investigate our sun since it is the sub-Logos that creates all that
we experience in this particular planetary system.
Will you give me a description of the sun, of our sun?
R A I am Ra. This is a query which is not easily answered in your
language, for the sun has various aspects in relation to intelligent infinity,
to intelligent energy, and to each density of each planet, as you call these
spheres. Moreover, these differences extend into the metaphysical, or
time/space, part of your creation.
In relationship to intelligent infinity, the sun body is, equally with all
parts of the infinite creation, part of that infinity.
In relation to the potentiated intelligent infinity which makes use of
intelligent energy, it is the offspring, shall we say, of the Logos for a much
larger number of sub-Logoi. The relationship is hierarchical in that the
sub-Logos uses the intelligent energy in ways set forth by the Logos and
uses its free will to co-create the, shall we say, full nuances of your
densities as you experience them.
In relationship to the densities, the sun body may physically, as you
would say, be seen to be a large body of gaseous elements undergoing the
processes of fusion and radiating heat and light.
Metaphysically, the sun achieves a meaning to fourth through seventh
density according to the growing abilities of entities in these densities to
grasp the living creation and co-entity, or other-self, nature of this sun
body. Thus by the sixth density the sun may be visited and inhabited by
those dwelling in time/space, and may even be partially created from
moment to moment by the processes of sixth-density entities in their
evolution.
41.5 QUESTIONER In your last statement did you mean that the sixth-density
entities are actually creating the manifestation of the sun in their density?
Could you explain what you meant by that?
R A I am Ra. In this density some entities whose means of reproduction is
fusion may choose to perform this portion of experience as part of the
beingness of the sun body. Thus you may think of portions of the light
that you receive as offspring of the generative expression of sixth-density
love.
SESSION 41 337
41.6 QUESTIONER Then could you say that sixth-density entities are using that
mechanism to be more closely co-Creators with the Infinite Creator?
R A I am Ra. This is precisely correct as seen in the latter portions of sixth
density, seeking the experiences of the gateway density.
41.7 QUESTIONER Thank you. What I want to do now is investigate, as the first
density is formed, what happens and how energy centers are first formed
in beings. Let me first ask you, does it make any sense to ask you if the
sun itself has a density, or is it all densities?
R A I am Ra. The sub-Logos is of the entire octave and is not that entity
which experiences the learning/teachings of entities such as yourselves.
41.8 QUESTIONER When the first density is formed, the— I am going to make a
statement of my understanding and if you will correct me. I will . . .
I intuitively see the first density being formed by an energy center that is a
vortex. This vortex then causes these spinning motions that I have
mentioned before of the light, vibration which is light, which then starts
to condense into the materials of the first density. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct as far as your reasoning has taken you.
However, it is well to point out that the Logos has the plan of all the
densities of the octave in potential completion before entering the
space/time continuum in first density. Thus the energy centers exist
before they are manifest.
41.9 QUESTIONER Then what is the simplest being that is manifested? I am
supposing it might be a single cell or something like that. And how does
it function with respect to energy centers?
R A I am Ra. The simplest manifest being is light, or what you have called
the photon. In relationship to energy centers it may be seen to be the
center, or foundation, of all articulated energy fields.
41.10 QUESTIONER When first density is formed, we have fire, air, earth, and
water. There is at some time the first movement, or individuation, of life
into a portion of consciousness that is self-mobile. Could you describe the
process of the creation of this and what type of energy center that it has?
R A I am Ra. The first, or red-ray, density, though attracted towards
growth, is not in the proper vibration for those conditions conducive to 
338 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
what you may call the spark of awareness. As the vibratory energies move
from red to orange the vibratory environment is such as to stimulate those
chemical substances, which lately had been inert, to combine in such a
fashion that love and light begin the function of growth.
The supposition which you had earlier made concerning single-celled
entities, such as the polymorphous dinoflagellate, is correct. The
mechanism is one of the attraction of upward spiraling light. There is
nothing random about this or any portion of evolution.
41.11 QUESTIONER As I remember, the polymorphous dinoflagellate has an ironrather than a copper-based cell. Could you comment on that?
R A I am Ra. This information is not central. The base of any metabolism,
shall we say, is that which may be found in the chemical substances of the
neighborhood of origin.
41.12 QUESTIONER I was just commenting on this because this indicates that it
has the motion of our animal life with copper-based cells, yet it has the
iron-based cell of plant life indicating a transition from, possibly, plant to
animal life. Am I wrong? My memory is a little fuzzy on this.
R A I am Ra. It is not that you are incorrect, but that no conclusions
should be drawn from such information. There are several different types
of bases for conscious entities, not only upon this planetary sphere, but to
a much greater extent in the forms found on planetary spheres of other
sub-Logoi. The chemical vehicle is that which most conveniently houses
the consciousness. The functioning of consciousness is the item of interest
rather than the chemical makeup of a physical vehicle.
We have observed that those whom you call scientists have puzzled over
the various differences and possible interrelationships of various stages,
types, and conditions of life-forms. This is not fruitful material as it is
that which is of a moment’s choice by your sub-Logos.
41.13 QUESTIONER I didn’t mean to waste time with that question, but you just
happened to mention that particular single cell. Does this polymorphous
dinoflagellate, then, have an orange energy center?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
41.14 QUESTIONER Is this energy center, then, on a very small scale, related to
the orange energy center in man?
SESSION 41 339
R A I am Ra. The true color is precisely the same. However, the
consciousness of the second-density beginning is primitive and the use of
orange ray limited to the expression of self which may be seen to be
movement and survival.
In third density, at this time, those clinging to orange ray have a much
more complex system of distortions through which orange ray is
manifested. This is somewhat complicated. We shall endeavor to simplify.
The appropriate true color for third density is, as you have ascertained,
yellow. However, the influences of the true-color green acting upon
yellow-ray entities have caused many entities to revert to the
consideration of self rather than the stepping forward into consideration
of other-self, or green ray.
This may not be seen to be of a negatively polarized nature, as the
negatively polarized entity is working very intensively with the deepest
manifestations of yellow-ray group energies, especially the manipulations
of other-self for service to self. Those reverting to orange ray—and we
may add these are many upon your plane at this time—are those who feel
the vibrations of true-color green and, therefore, respond by rejecting
governmental and societal activities as such and seek once more the self.
However, not having developed the yellow ray properly so that it balances
the personal vibratory rates of the entity, the entity then is faced with the
task of further activation and balancing of the self in relation to the self,
thus the orange-ray manifestations at this space/time nexus.
Thus true-color orange is that which it is, without difference. However,
the manifestations of this, or any ray, may be seen to be most various
depending upon the vibratory levels and balances of the mind/body or
mind/body/spirit complexes which are expressing these energies.
41.15 QUESTIONER Could you tell me the simplest and first entity to have both
orange- and yellow-ray energy centers?
R A I am Ra. Upon your planetary sphere those having the first yellow-ray
experiences are those of animal and vegetable natures which find the
necessity for reproduction by bisexual techniques, or who find it necessary
to depend in some way upon other-selves for survival and growth.
340 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
41.16 QUESTIONER And then what entity would be the simplest that would have
red, orange, yellow, and green activation?
R A I am Ra. This information has been covered in a previous session.2 To
perhaps simplify your asking, each center may be seen to be activated
potentially in third density, the late second-density entities having the
capability, if efficient use is made of experience, of vibrating and
activating the green-ray energy center.
The third-density being, having the potential for complete self-awareness,
thus has the potential for the minimal activation of all energy centers.
The fourth, fifth, and sixth densities are those refining the higher energy
centers. The seventh density is a density of completion and the turning
towards timelessness, or foreverness.
41.17 QUESTIONER Well, then would an animal in second density have all of the
energy centers in some way in its being, but just not activated?
R A I am Ra. This is precisely correct.
41.18 QUESTIONER Now, the animal in second density is composed of light as
are all things. What I am trying to get at is the relationship between the
light that the various bodies of the animal are created of, and the
relationship of this to the energy centers which are active, and the ones
which are not active, and how this is linked with the Logos. It is a
difficult question to ask.
Can you give me some kind of answer on that?
R A I am Ra. The answer is to redirect your thought processes from any
mechanical view of evolution. The will of the Logos posits the potentials
available to the evolving entity. The will of the entity, as it evolves, is the
single measure of the rate and fastidiousness of the activation and
balancing of the various energy centers.
41.19 QUESTIONER Thank you. In yesterday’s, or the day before yesterday’s
session, you mentioned variable speed of rotation or activity of energy
centers. What did you mean by that, speed of rotation?
R A I am Ra. Each energy center has a wide range of rotational speed, or
as you may see it more clearly in relation to color, brilliance. The more
 2 Possibly referring to 35.1.
SESSION 41 341
strongly the will of the entity concentrates upon and refines, or purifies,
each energy center, the more brilliant, or rotationally active, each energy
center will be. It is not necessary for the energy centers to be activated in
order in the case of the self-aware entity. Thusly, entities may have
extremely brilliant energy centers while being quite unbalanced in their
violet-ray aspect due to lack of attention paid to the totality of experience
of the entity.
The key to balance may then be seen in the unstudied, spontaneous, and
honest response of entities toward experiences, thus using experience to
the utmost, then applying the balancing exercises and achieving the
proper attitude for the most purified spectrum of energy center
manifestation in violet ray.
This is why the brilliance, or rotational speed, of the energy centers is not
considered above the balanced aspect, or violet-ray manifestation, of an
entity in regarding harvestability; for those entities which are unbalanced,
especially as to the primary rays, will not be capable of sustaining the
impact of the love and light of intelligent infinity to the extent necessary
for harvest.
41.20 QUESTIONER Could you tell me the difference between space/time and
time/space?
R A I am Ra. Using your words, the difference is that between the visible
and invisible, or the physical and metaphysical. Using mathematical
terms, as does the one you call Larson, the difference is that between s/t
and t/s.
41.21 QUESTIONER You mentioned in the last session that fasting was a method
of removing unwanted thought-forms. Can you expand on this process
and explain a little more about how this works?
R A I am Ra. This, as all healing techniques, must be used by a conscious
being; that is, a being conscious that the ridding of excess and unwanted
material from the body complex is the analogy to the ridding of mind or
spirit of excess or unwanted material. Thus the one discipline, or denial,
of the unwanted portion as an appropriate part of the self is taken
through the tree of mind down through the trunk to subconscious levels
where the connection is made. And thus the body, mind, and spirit, then, 
342 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
in unison, express denial of the excess or unwanted spiritual or mental
material as part of the entity.
All then falls away, and the entity—while understanding, if you will, and
appreciating the nature of the rejected material as part of the greater self,
nevertheless, through the action of the will—purifies and refines the
mind/body/spirit complex, bringing into manifestation the desired mind
complex or spirit complex attitude.
41.22 QUESTIONER Then would this be like a conscious reprogramming of
catalyst? For instance, for some entities catalyst is programmed by the
higher self to create experiences so that the entity can release itself from
unwanted biases. Would this be analogous then to the entity consciously
programming this release and using fasting as the method of
communication to itself?
R A I am Ra. This is not only correct but may be taken further. The self, if
conscious to a great enough extent of the workings of this catalyst and the
techniques of programming, may, through concentration of the will and
the faculty of faith alone, cause reprogramming without the analogy of
the fasting, the diet, or other analogous body complex disciplines.
41.23 QUESTIONER I have a book, Initiation,
3 in which the woman describes
initiation. Are you familiar with the contents of this book?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. We scan your mind.
41.24 QUESTIONER Jim has read the entire book. I have only read part of it, but I
was wondering if the teachings in the book with respect to balancing were
your teachings, Ra’s teachings?
R A I am Ra. This is basically correct with distortions that may be seen
when this material is collated with the material we have offered.
41.25 QUESTIONER Why are the red, yellow, and blue energy centers called
primary centers? I think from the previous material I understand this, but
is there some tracing of these primary colors back to intelligent infinity
that is more profound than what you have given us?
 3 Initiation, by Elisabeth Haich
SESSION 41 343
R A I am Ra. We cannot say what may seem profound to an entity. The
red, yellow, and blue rays are primary because they signify activity of a
primary nature.
Red ray is the foundation; orange ray the movement towards yellow ray
which is the ray of self-awareness and interaction. Green ray is the
movement through various experiences of energy exchanges having to do
with compassion and all-forgiving love to the primary blue ray, which is
the first ray of radiation of self regardless of any actions from another.
The green-ray entity is ineffectual in the face of blockage from otherselves. The blue-ray entity is a co-Creator. This may perhaps simply be a
restatement of previous activity, but if you consider the function of the
Logos as representative of the Infinite Creator in effectuating the knowing
of the Creator by the Creator, you may perhaps see the steps by which
this may be accomplished.
May we ask for one final full question before we leave this working?
41.26 QUESTIONER This may be too long a question for this working, but I will
ask it, and if it is too long we can continue it at a later time.
Could you tell me of the development of the social memory complex Ra
from its first beginnings, and what catalyst it used to get to where it is
now in activation of rays? Is this too long a question?
R A I am Ra. The question does not demand a long answer, for we who
experienced the vibratory densities upon that planetary sphere which you
call Venus were fortunate in being able to move in harmony with the
planetary vibrations with an harmonious graduation to second, to third,
and to fourth, and a greatly accelerated fourth-density experience.
We spent much time/space, if you will, in fifth density balancing the
intense compassion we had gained in fourth density. The graduation,
again, was harmonious, and our social memory complex, which had
become most firmly cemented in fourth density, remained of a very
strong and helpful nature.
Our sixth-density work was also accelerated because of the harmony of
our social memory complex so that we were able to set out as members of
the Confederation to even more swiftly approach graduation to seventh
density. Our harmony, however, has been a grievous source of naïveté as 
344 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
regards working with your planet. Is there a brief query before we leave
this instrument?
41.27 QUESTIONER I’ll only ask if there’s anything that we can do to make the
instrument more comfortable or improve the contact?
R A I am Ra. All is well. I leave you, my friends, in the love and in the
light of the One Infinite Creator. Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the
power and the peace of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 42
MARCH 22, 1981
42.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
42.1 QUESTIONER I have a question on balancing. It’s quite long, and we’ll copy
it directly into the book as it is. If you can answer it without me reading
it, it would save time, otherwise I will read it.
R A I am Ra. We understand your desire to preserve your opportunity.
However, a summary of the query would be well. For if we answer a
mentally requested query, this query shall not be published. If you wish
this answer to be for private use only, we shall proceed.
42.2 QUESTIONER I will just read it very rapidly, the question, then.
I am going to make a statement and ask you to comment on its degree of
accuracy. I am assuming that the balanced entity would not be swayed
either towards positive or negative emotions by any situation which he
might confront. By remaining unemotional in any situation, the balanced
entity may clearly discern the appropriate and necessary responses in
harmony with the Law of One for each situation.
Most entities on our planet find themselves unconsciously caught up into
every emotional situation which they come in contact with according to
their own unique biases. And, because of these biases, they are unable to
see clearly teach/learning opportunities and appropriate response in each
emotional situation and must, therefore, through a process of much trial
and error and enduring of resulting pain, repeat such situations many,
many times until they become consciously aware of the need to balance
their energy centers and thusly their responses and behaviors.
Once a person becomes consciously aware of the need to balance their
energy centers and responses, the next step is to allow the appropriately
positive or negative responses to emotional situations to flow smoothly
through their being without retaining any of the emotional coloration
after it has been consciously observed and allowed to flow through the
being. And I am assuming that this ability to consciously observe the
positively or negatively charged energy flowing through the being may be
augmented by practice of the balancing exercises you have given us, with 
346 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
the result in balance being achieved for the entity which would allow him
to remain unemotional and undistorted in regards to the Law of One in
any situation, much like the objective viewer of the television movie.
Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is an incorrect application of the balancing which we
have discussed.1 The exercise of first experiencing feelings and then
consciously discovering their antitheses within the being has as its
objective not the smooth flow of feelings, both positive and negative,
while remaining unswayed, but rather the objective of becoming
unswayed. This is a simpler result and takes much practice, shall we say.
The catalyst of experience works in order for the learn/teachings of this
density to occur. However, if there is seen in the being a response, even if
it is simply observed, the entity is still using the catalyst for
learn/teaching. The end result is that the catalyst is no longer needed.
Thus this density is no longer needed.
This is not indifference or objectivity but a finely tuned compassion and
love which sees all things as love. This seeing elicits no response due to
catalytic reactions. Thus the entity is now able to become co-Creator of
experiential occurrences. This is the truer balance.
42.3 QUESTIONER I will attempt to make an analogy.
If an animal, shall I say a bull in a pen, attacks you because you have
wandered into his pen, you get out of his way rapidly, but you do not
blame him. Or, you do not have much of an emotional response other
than the fear response that he might damage you.
However, if you encounter another self in his territory and he attacks you,
your response may be more of an emotional nature creating physical
bodily responses. Am I correct in assuming that when your response to
the animal and to the other-self, seeing both as the Creator, and loving
both, and understanding their action in attacking you is the action of
their free will, then you have balanced yourself correctly in this area? Is
this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is basically correct. However, the balanced entity will
see in the seeming attack of an other-self the causes of this action which
 1 Discussed in 5.2.
SESSION 42 347
are, in most cases, of a more complex nature than the cause of the attack
of the second-density bull, as was your example. Thus, this balanced
entity would be open to many more opportunities for service to a thirddensity other-self.
42.4 QUESTIONER Would a perfectly balanced entity feel an emotional response
when being attacked by the other-self?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. The response is love.
42.5 QUESTIONER In the illusion that we now experience it is difficult to
maintain this response, especially if the entity’s attack results in physical
pain, but I assume that this response should be maintained even through
physical loss of life or extreme pain. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct and further is of a major, or principal,
importance in understanding, shall we say, the principle of balance.
Balance is not indifference but rather the observer not blinded by any
feelings of separation but rather fully imbued with love.
42.6 QUESTIONER In the last session you made the statement that, “We (that is
Ra) spent much time/space in the fifth density balancing the intense
compassion gained in fourth density.” Could you expand on this concept
with respect to what we were just discussing?
R A I am Ra. The fourth density, as we have said, abounds in compassion.
This compassion is folly when seen through the eyes of wisdom. It is the
salvation of third density but creates a mismatch in the ultimate balance
of the entity.
Thus we, as a social memory complex of fourth density, had the tendency
towards compassion even to martyrdom in aid of other-selves. When the
fifth-density harvest was achieved we found that in this vibratory level
flaws could be seen in the efficacy of such unrelieved compassion. We
spent much time/space in contemplation of those ways of the Creator
which imbue love with wisdom.
42.7 QUESTIONER I would like to try to make an analogy for this in third
density.
Many entities here feel great compassion toward relieving the physical
problems of third-density other-selves by administering to them in many 
348 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
ways, bringing them food if there is hunger—as there is in the African
nations now—bringing them medicine if they believe they require
administering to them medically, and being selfless in all of these services
to a very great extent.
This is creating a polarization, or a vibration, that is in harmony with
green ray or fourth density. However, it is not balanced with the
understanding of fifth density that these entities are experiencing catalyst,
and a more balanced administration to their needs would be to provide
them with the learning necessary to reach the state of awareness of fourth
density than it would be to administer to their physical needs at this time.
Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. To a mind/body/spirit complex which is
starving, the appropriate response is the feeding of the body. You may
extrapolate from this.
On the other hand, however, you are correct in your assumption that the
green-ray response is not as refined as that which has been imbued with
wisdom. This wisdom enables the entity to appreciate its contributions to
the planetary consciousness by the quality of its being, without regard to
activity or behavior which expects results upon visible planes.
42.8 QUESTIONER Then why do we have the extreme starvation problem in,
generally, in the area of Africa at this time? Is this . . . is there any
metaphysical reason for this, or is it purely random occurrence?
R A I am Ra. Your previous assumption was correct as to the catalytic
action of this starvation and ill health. However, it is within the free will
of an entity to respond to this plight of other-selves, and the offering of
the needed foodstuffs and substances is an appropriate response within
the framework of your learn/teachings at this time which involve the
growing sense of love for, and service to, other-selves.
42.9 QUESTIONER What is the difference in terms of energy center activation
between a person who represses emotionally charged responses to
emotionally charged situations and the person who is balanced and,
therefore, truly unswayed by emotionally charged situations?
R A I am Ra. This query contains an incorrect assumption. To the truly
balanced entity no situation would be emotionally charged. With this
understood, we may say the following:
SESSION 42 349
The repression of emotions depolarizes the entity insofar as it then
chooses not to use the catalytic action of the space/time present in a
spontaneous manner, thus dimming the energy centers. There is,
however, some polarization towards positive if the cause of this repression
is consideration for other-selves.
The entity which has worked long enough with the catalyst to be able to
feel the catalyst but not find it necessary to express reactions is not yet
balanced but suffers no depolarization due to the transparency of its
experiential continuum. Thus the gradual increase in the ability to
observe one’s reactions and to know the self will bring the self ever closer
to a true balance. Patience is requested and suggested, for the catalyst is
intense upon your plane, and its use must be appreciated over a period of
consistent learn/teaching.
42.10 QUESTIONER How can a person know when he is unswayed by an
emotionally charged situation, or if he is repressing the flow of emotions,
or if he is in balance and truly unswayed?
R A I am Ra. We have spoken to this point. Therefore, we shall briefly
iterate that to the balanced entity no situation has an emotional charge
but is simply a situation like any other in which the entity may or may
not observe an opportunity to be of service. The closer an entity comes to
this attitude, the closer an entity is to balance.
You may note that it is not our recommendation that reactions to catalyst
be repressed or suppressed unless such reactions would be a stumbling
block not consonant with the Law of One to an other-self. It is far, far
better to allow the experience to express itself in order that the entity may
then make fuller use of this catalyst.
42.11 QUESTIONER How can an individual assess what energy centers within its
being are activated and in no immediate need of further attention, and
which energy centers are not activated and are in need of immediate
attention?
R A I am Ra. The thoughts of an entity, its feelings or emotions, and least
of all its behavior are the signposts for the teaching/learning of self by self.
In the analysis of one’s experiences of a diurnal cycle an entity may assess
what it considers to be inappropriate thoughts, behaviors, feelings, and
emotions.
350 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
In examining these inappropriate activities of mind, body, and spirit
complexes, the entity may then place these distortions in the proper
vibrational ray and thus see where work is needed.
42.12 QUESTIONER In the last session you said, “The self, if conscious to a great
enough extent of the workings of the catalyst of fasting, and the
techniques of programming, may, through concentration of the will and
the faculty of faith alone, cause reprogramming without the analogy of
fasting, diet, or other analogous body complex disciplines.”
What are the techniques of programming which the higher self uses to
ensure that the desired lessons are learned or attempted by the thirddensity self in our third-density incarnational laboratory?
R A I am Ra. There is but one technique for this growing, or nurturing, of
will and faith, and that is the focusing of the attention. The attention
span of those you call children is considered short. The spiritual attention
span of most of your peoples is that of the child. Thus it is a matter of
wishing to become able to collect one’s attention and hold it upon the
desired programming.
This, when continued, strengthens the will. The entire activity can only
occur when there exists faith that an outcome of this discipline is possible.
42.13 QUESTIONER Can you mention some exercises for helping to increase the
attention span?
R A I am Ra. Such exercises are common among the many mystical
traditions of your entities. The visualization of a shape and color which is
of personal inspirational quality to the meditator is the heart of what you
would call the religious aspects of this sort of visualization.
The visualization of simple shapes and colors which have no innate
inspirational quality to the entity form the basis for what you may call
your magical traditions.
Whether you image the rose or the circle is not important. However, it is
suggested that one or the other path towards visualization be chosen in
order to exercise this faculty. This is due to the careful arrangement of
shapes and colors which have been described as visualizations by those
steeped in the magical tradition.
SESSION 42 351
42.14 QUESTIONER As a youth I was trained in the engineering sciences which
include the necessity for three dimensional visualization for the processes
of design. Would this be helpful as a foundation for the type of
visualization that you are speaking of, or would it be of no value?
R A I am Ra. To you, the questioner, this experience was valuable. To a
less-sensitized entity it would not gain the proper increase of
concentrative energy.
42.15 QUESTIONER Then the less-sensitized entity should use a— What should
he use for the proper energy?
R A I am Ra. In the less sensitized individual the choosing of personally
inspirational images is appropriate whether this inspiration be the rose,
which is of perfect beauty, the cross, which is of perfect sacrifice, the
Buddha, which is the All-being in One, or whatever else may inspire the
individual.
42.16 QUESTIONER I had one experience in meditation (which I spoke of
before),2 which was very profound, approximately twenty years ago, a
little less. What disciplines would be most applicable to re-create this
situation and this type of experience?
R A I am Ra. Your experience would best be approached from the
ceremonial magical stance. However, the wanderer or adept shall have the
far greater potential for this type of experience which, as you have
undoubtedly analyzed to be the case, is one of an archetypal nature, one
belonging to the roots of cosmic consciousness.
42.17 QUESTIONER Was that in any way related to the Golden Dawn in
ceremonial magic?
R A I am Ra. The relationship was congruency.
42.18 QUESTIONER Then in attempting to reproduce this experience would I
then best follow practices for the Order of the Golden Dawn in
reproducing this?
R A I am Ra. To attempt to reproduce an initiatory experience is to move,
shall we say, backwards. However, the practice of this form of service to
 2 In 34.3.
352 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
others is appropriate in your case, working with your associates. It is not
well for positively polarized entities to work singly. The reasons for this
are obvious.
42.19 QUESTIONER Then this experience was a form of initiation? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. Yes.
42.20 QUESTIONER Thank you. Using the teach/learning relationship of parent
to its child, what type of actions would demonstrate the activation of each
energy center in sequence from red through violet?
R A I am Ra. This shall be the last full query of this working.
The entity, child or adult, as you call it, is not an instrument to be played.
The appropriate teach/learning device of parent to child is the openhearted beingness of the parent and the total acceptance of the beingness
of the child. This will encompass whatever material the child entity has
brought into the life experience in this plane.
There are two things especially important in this relationship other than
the basic acceptance of the child by the parent.
Firstly, the experience of whatever means the parent uses to worship and
give thanksgiving to the One Infinite Creator should, if possible, be
shared with the child entity upon a daily basis, as you would say.
Secondly, the compassion of parent to child may well be tempered by the
understanding that the child entity shall learn the biases of service to
others or service to self from the parental other-self. This is the reason
that some discipline is appropriate in the teach/learning. This does not
apply to the activation of any one energy center, for each entity is unique,
and each relationship with self and other-self doubly unique. The
guidelines given are only general for this reason.
Is there a brief query before we leave this instrument?
42.21 QUESTIONER If this is not brief enough, don’t bother to answer it. But
first, I just wondered if certain parts are always removed—the same parts
removed—in cattle mutilations, and is that related to the energy centers,
and why these parts, these particular parts, were removed. But if that is
too long of an answer, I’ll just ask if there’s anything that we can do to
make the instrument more comfortable or improve the contact?
SESSION 42 353
R A I am Ra. It would be well to respond to the query at another working.
The instrument is well.
I am Ra. I leave you, my friends, in the love and the light of the Infinite
Creator. Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One
Infinite Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 43
MARCH 24, 1981
43.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator.
Before we communicate may we request the adjustment, without the
touching of this instrument’s physical body complex, of the item which
presses upon the instrument’s head. This is causing some interference
with our contact.
43.1 QUESTIONER Is that the pillow or something else? Do you . . . do you
speak of the pillow under the neck?
R A I am Ra. There is a line of interference crossing the crown of the
head.
43.2 QUESTIONER Is it this? [Questioner finds a two-inch fold in the sheet three
inches above the instrument’s head and lays it flat.] Is that it?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. Please increase the distance from the crown
of the head.
43.3 QUESTIONER [Ruffles in the sheet are smoothed all along the length of the sheet
next to the instrument’s head.] Is that satisfactory?
R A I am Ra. Yes.
43.4 QUESTIONER I am sorry that we failed to notice that.
R A We communicate now.
43.5 QUESTIONER I’ll just try to pick up the last question left over from the last
session, if you can answer it. I don’t know if it is of any importance, but it
just occurred to me that the parts removed in cattle mutilations are the
same every time, and I just wondered if this was related to the energy
centers, and why they were important if that was so?
R A I am Ra. This is basically correct if you may understand that there is a
link between energy centers and various thought-forms. Thus the fears of
the mass consciousness create the climate for the concentration upon the
removal of bodily parts which symbolize areas of concern or fear in the
mass consciousness.
SESSION 43 355
43.6 QUESTIONER Are you saying, then, that these parts that are removed are
related to the mass consciousness of the third-density human form on the
planet, and this fear is being used in some way by the second-density
entities, or—correction, the thought-form entities—that do the
mutilations?
R A I am Ra. This is correct as latterly stated. The thought-form entities
feed upon fear; thus they are able to do precise damage according to
systems of symbology. The other second-density types of which you speak
need the, what you call, blood.
43.7 QUESTIONER These other second-density types need the blood to remain
in the physical? Do they come in and out of our physical density from
one of the astral planes?
R A I am Ra. These entities are, shall we say, creatures of the Orion group.
They do not exist in astral planes, as do the thought-forms, but wait
within the earth’s surface. We, as always, remind you that it is our
impression that this type of information is unimportant.
43.8 QUESTIONER I agree with you wholeheartedly, but I sometimes am at a
loss, before investigation into an area, to know whether it is going to lead
to a better understanding. This just seemed to be related somehow to the
energy centers that we were speaking of.
I am going to make a statement and have you comment on it for its
correctness. The statement is:
When the Creator’s light is split or divided into colors and energy centers
for experience, then in order to reunite with the Creator the energy
centers must be balanced exactly the same as the split light was as it
originated from the Creator. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. To give this query a simple answer would be nearly
impossible.
We shall simplify by concentrating upon what we consider to be the
central idea towards which you are striving. We have, many times now,
spoken about the relative importance of balancing as opposed to the
relative unimportance of maximal activation of each energy center.1 The
reason is as you have correctly surmised.
 1 Spoken about in 29.27, 40.4, and 41.19.
356 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Thusly the entity is concerned, if it be upon the path of positive
harvestability, with the regularizing of the various energies of experience.
Thus the most fragile entity may be more balanced than one with extreme
energy and activity in service to others due to the fastidiousness with
which the will is focused upon the use of experience in knowing the self.
The densities beyond your own give the minimally balanced individual
much time/space and space/time with which to continue to refine these
inner balances.
43.9 QUESTIONER In the next density, or the . . . in the fourth density, is the
catalyst of physical pain used as a mechanism for experiential balancing?
R A I am Ra. The use of physical pain is minimal, having only to do with
the end of the fourth-density incarnation. This physical pain would not
be considered severe enough to treat, shall we say, in third density. The
catalysts of mental and spiritual pain are used in fourth density.
43.10 QUESTIONER Why is physical pain a part of the end of fourth density?
R A I am Ra. You would call this variety of pain weariness.
43.11 QUESTIONER What is the— Can you even state the average lifespan in the
fourth density of space/time incarnation?
R A I am Ra. The space/time incarnation typical of harmonious fourth
density is approximately 90,000 of your years as you measure time.
43.12 QUESTIONER Then, is there a time/space— Are there multiple incarnations
in fourth density with time/space experiences between incarnations?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
43.13 QUEST IONER How long is a cycle of experience in fourth density, in our
years?
R A The cycle of experience is approximately 30 million of your years if
the entities are not capable of being harvested sooner. There is in this
density a harvest which is completely the function of the readiness of the
social memory complex. It is not structured as is your own, for it deals
with a more transparent distortion of the One Infinite Creator.
43.14 QUESTIONER Then the big difference in harvestability between third and
fourth density is that at the end of the third density the individual is
harvested as a function of individual violet ray, but in fourth density, is it 
SESSION 43 357
the equivalent of violet-ray then for the entire social memory complex
that must be of a harvestable nature to go to fifth density?
R A I am Ra. This is correct although in fifth density entities may choose
to learn as a social memory complex or as mind/body/spirit complexes,
and may graduate to sixth density under these conditions, for the wisdom
density is an extremely free density, whereas the lessons of compassion
leading to wisdom necessarily have to do with other-selves.
43.15 QUESTIONER Then is sixth-density harvest strictly of social memory
complex because, again, we have compassion blended back using wisdom?
R A I am Ra. This is quite correct.
43.16 QUESTIONER We know that the physical vehicle in fourth density that is
used during space/time, I am assuming, is quite similar to the one that we
now use in third density. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. The chemical elements used are not the same. However, the
appearance is similar.
43.17 QUESTIONER Is it necessary to eat food in fourth density?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
43.18 QUESTIONER The mechanism of, shall we say, social catalyst due to a
necessity for feeding the body then is active in fourth density. Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. The fourth-density being desires to serve,
and the preparation of foodstuffs is extremely simple due to increased
communion between entity and living foodstuff. Therefore, this is not a
significant catalyst but rather a simple precondition of the space/time
experience. The catalyst involved is the necessity for the ingestion of
foodstuffs. This is not considered to be of importance by fourth-density
entities, and it, therefore, aids in the teach/learning of patience.
43.19 QUESTIONER Could you expand a little bit on how that aids in the
teach/learning of patience?
R A I am Ra. To stop the functioning of service to others long enough to
ingest foodstuffs is to invoke patience.
358 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
43.20 QUESTIONER I’m guessing that it is not necessary to ingest food in fifth
density. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. However, the vehicle needs food which
may be prepared by thought.
43.21 QUESTIONER What type of food would this be?
R A I am Ra. You would call this type of food nectar, or ambrosia, or a
light broth of golden white hue.
43.22 QUESTIONER What is the purpose of ingesting food in fifth density?
R A I am Ra. This is a somewhat central point. The purpose of space/time
is the increase in catalytic action appropriate to the density. One of the
preconditions for space/time existence is some form of body complex.
Such a body complex must be fueled in some way.
43.23 QUESTIONER Then, there is a— In third density the fueling of our bodily
complex not only simply fuels the complex but gives us opportunities to
learn service. In fourth density it not only fuels the complex but gives us
opportunities to learn patience. In fifth density it fuels the complex, but
does it teach?
R A I am Ra. In fifth density it is comfort, for those of like mind gather
together to share in this broth, thus becoming one in light and wisdom
while joining hearts and hands in physical activity. Thus in this density it
becomes a solace rather than a catalyst for learning.
43.24 QUESTIONER I am simply trying to trace the, you might say, the evolution
of this catalyst that then, as you say, changes in fifth density. I might as
well complete this and ask if there is any ingestion of food in sixth
density?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. However, the nature of this food is that of
light and is impossible to describe to you in any meaningful way as
regards the thrust of your query.
43.25 QUESTIONER In fourth density on this planet, after we’re totally
transitioned and the harvest is complete, fourth-density beings will be
incarnate on the surface of this planet as we know it now, this particular
surface. Is that correct?
SESSION 43 359
R A I am Ra. The probability/possibility vortices indicate this to be most
likely.
43.26 QUESTIONER Then will there be at that time any fifth-density and/or sixthdensity beings on the surface of the planet?
R A I am Ra. Not for a fairly long measure of your time as fourth-density
beings need to spend their learn/teaching space/time with their own
density’s entities.
43.27 QUESTIONER Then basically what you are saying is that at that point the
teachings of fifth- or sixth-density beings would not be too well
understood by the fourth density, new fourth-density entities?
R A I am Ra. Do you wish to query us upon this point?
43.28 QUESTIONER I guess I didn’t state that correctly. Is it true that the fourthdensity, new fourth-density beings then need to evolve in their thinking
to reach a point where fifth-density lessons would be of value?
R A I am Ra. We grasp the thrust of your query. Although it is true that as
fourth-density beings progress they have more and more need for other
density teachings, it is also true that just as we speak to you due to the
calling, so the information called is always available. It is simply that fifthdensity beings will not live upon the surface of the planetary sphere until
the planet reaches fifth-density vibratory level.
43.29 QUESTIONER I was wondering, then, if the mechanism of teach/learning
was the same, relatively, then in fourth density. From what you say, it
seems that is necessary for first the call to exist for the teach/learning of
fifth density to be given to fourth, just as a call must exist here before
fourth-density lessons are given to third. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This query is misguided, for experience in fourth density is
emphatically not the same as third-density experience. However, it is
correct that the same mechanism of calling predisposes the information
received in a way consonant with free will.
You may ask one more full question at this working.
43.30 QUESTIONER You stated that the key to strengthening the will is
concentration. Can you tell me the relative importance of the following
aids to concentration? I have listed: silence, temperature control, comfort 
360 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
of body, screening as a Faraday cage would screen electromagnetic
radiation, visible light screening, and a constant smell such as the use of
incense for strengthening your concentration in meditation.
In other words, an isolation-type of situation. You mentioned that this
was one of the functions of the pyramid.
R A I am Ra. The analogies of body complex to mind and spirit complex
activities have been discussed previously.2 You may consider all of these
aforementioned aids as those helpful to the stimulation of that which, in
actuality, aids concentration—that being the will of the entity. This free
will may be focused at any object or goal.
43.31 QUESTIONER I was really trying to get at whether it would be of great
importance to construct a better place for our meditations. We have
distractions here of the types which I mentioned, and I know that it is our
total free will as to whether we construct this or not, but I was just trying
to get at the principles. For instance, the Faraday cage would be quite a
big construction, and I was wondering if it would be of any real value?
R A I am Ra. Without infringing upon free will we feel it possible to state
that the Faraday cage and the isolation tank are gadgets.
The surrounding of self in a sylvan atmosphere, apart from distractions,
in a place of working used for no other purpose, in which you and your
associates agree to lay aside all goals but that of the meditative seeking of
the Infinite Creator is, shall we say, not gadgetry but the making use of
the creation of the Father in second-density love and in the love and
support of other-selves.
Are there any brief queries before this working is at an end?
43.32 QUESTIONER I’d only ask if there is anything we can do to make the
instrument more comfortable or to improve the contact?
R A I am Ra. All is well. I leave you in the love and the light of the One
Infinite Creator. Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and the peace
of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai.
 2 Discussed previously in 40.14 and 41.21–22.
SESSION 44
MARCH 28, 1981
44.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
44.1 QUESTIONER The instrument had some question as to her vitality. We
were having a hard time appraising it. Is it possible for you to comment
on this?
R A I am Ra. We scan this instrument and find that we may be of service
without infringement due to this instrument’s decision to abide by the
most careful appraisal possible rather than the most desired.
We have been surprised that we have been able to maintain contact on a
regular basis during this most intense period of negatively influenced
interference. Sexual energy transfers have at some workings given this
instrument additional vital resources upon which to draw. However, this
is not so at this working and, therefore, the will of the instrument drives
its bodily complex. This instrument has no judgment about this service.
The faculty of will, while recognized as most central and valuable, could
in this application cause serious distortion in bodily complex of the
instrument.
May we note that martyrdom is not necessarily helpful. We ask this
instrument to examine these thoughts, judge, and discriminate the
possible truth of them; and if they be deemed true, we suggest this
instrument release the power of judgment to the support group whose
interests are balanced far more than this instrument’s. Allow decisions to
be made without expectation or attachment to the outcome. Our hopes,
may we say, for long-term contact through this instrument depend upon
its maturing ability to be of service to other-selves by accepting their help
and thus remaining a viable instrument.
May we thank the questioner for allowing us to speak to this point, for we
were aware of the distortions incumbent upon one whose will to serve is
not regulated by knowledge of limitations of bodily-complex distortion.
44.2 QUESTIONER Could you please terminate this contact as soon as necessary
since we are not aware of the vitality of the instrument at this time?
362 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. In your way of speaking our hands are, to a certain extent,
tied. This instrument has called upon inner reserves which are dearly
bought. Therefore, we have the honor/duty of using this energy to the
best of our ability. When it becomes low we shall most certainly, as
always, express the need for ending the working. The only way of
avoiding this sharing of service at whatever cost is to refrain from the
working. It is a dilemma.
44.3 QUESTIONER Can you tell me what the tone was that I heard in my left ear
when you started your communication?
R A I am Ra. This was a negatively oriented signal.
44.4 QUESTIONER Can you tell me how I would hear a positively oriented
signal?
R A I am Ra. Two types there are of positive signal. First, in the right ear
location the signal indicates a sign that you are being given some
unworded message saying, “Listen. Take heed.” The other positive sign is
the tone above the head which is a balanced confirmation of a thought.
44.5 QUESTIONER Are there any other negatively oriented signals that I get?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. You are able to receive thought-forms, wordforms, and visions. However, you seem able to discriminate.
44.6 QUESTIONER Is there a reason that I am open to these signals of a negative
nature?
R A I am Ra. Are you not all things?
44.7 QUESTIONER I think that it might be a good idea if we terminated the
contact at this time to allow the instrument to gain more necessary energy
before continuing. This is my decision at this time. I would very much
like to continue the contact, but it seems to me, although I can’t tell the
instrument’s level, that the instrument should not use up any more
energy.
R A I am Ra. We are responding to an unasked query. However, it is most
salient, and therefore we beg your forgiveness for this infringement. The
energy has been lost to the instrument, dedicated to this purpose only.
You may do as you will, but this is the nature of the instrument’s
preparation for contact and is the sole reason we may use it.
SESSION 44 363
44.8 QUESTIONER I’m not sure I fully understood you. Could you say that a
little different way? Could you explain more completely?
R A I am Ra. Each of you in this working has consciously dedicated the
existence now being experienced to service to others. This instrument has
refined this dedication through long experience with the channeling, as
you term it, of Confederation philosophy, as you may say. Thus when we
first contacted this instrument it had offered its beingness, not only to
service to other-selves, but service by communication of this nature.
As this contact has developed, this dedication of beingness has become
quite specific. Thus once the vital energy is dedicated by the instrument
to our communications, even if the working did not occur, this vital
energy would be lost to the day-by-day experience of the instrument.
Thus we indicated the importance of the instrument’s releasing of the will
from the process of determining the times of working, for if the
instrument desires contact, the energy is gathered and thus lost for
ordinary or mundane purposes.
44.9 QUESTIONER In that case, since the energy is already lost, we might as well
continue with this session, and we should very carefully monitor the
instrument and be the sole judge of when the sessions should occur. Am I
correct?
R A I am Ra. This is profoundly correct. This instrument’s determination
to continue contact during this period has already extended the low
energy period.
44.10 QUESTIONER This is very revealing to us. Thank you.
Each of us gets the signals and dreams. I have been aware of clairaudient
communication at least once in waking up. Can you suggest a method
whereby we might, shall I say, nullify the effect of the influence that we
don’t want from a negative source?
R A I am Ra. There are various methods. We shall offer the most available
or simple. To share the difficult contact with the other-selves associated
with this working and to meditate in love for these senders of images and
light for self and other-selves is the most available means of nullifying the
effects of such occurrences. To downgrade these experiences by the use of
intellect or the disciplines of will is to invite the prolonging of the effects.
Far better, then, to share in trust such experiences and join hearts and 
364 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
souls in love and light with compassion for the sender and armor for the
self.
44.11 QUESTIONER Can you tell me the source of the instrument’s dream of this
morning that she told to me as soon as she woke up?
R A I am Ra. The feeling of the dream, shall we say, was Orioninfluenced. The clothing of the dream revealing more the instrument’s
unconscious associative patterns of symbolism.
44.12 QUESTIONER In meditation a number of years ago my arm started to glow,
moving rapidly involuntarily. What was that?
R A I am Ra. The phenomenon was an analogy made available to you
from your higher self. The analogy was that the being that you were was
living in a way not understood by, shall we say, physicists, scientists, or
doctors.
44.13 QUESTIONER What I am trying to get at in this session is any practices that
we might be able to do to best revitalize the instrument, for it is going to
be necessary to do all we can, to do this, in order to maintain our
contacts. Can you tell us what we could best do to increase the
instrument’s vitality for these contacts?
R A I am Ra. Your experience was a function of your ability to contact
intelligent infinity. Therefore, it does not have a direct bearing upon this
instrument’s vital energy.
We have spoken before of those things which aid this instrument in the
vital energy: the sensitivity to beauty, to the singing of sacred music, to
the meditation and worship, to the sharing of self with self in freely given
love either in social or sexual intercourse. These things work quite directly
upon the vitality. This instrument has a distortion towards appreciation
of variety of experiences. This, in a less direct way, aids vitality.
44.14 QUESTIONER I was looking at the diagram of the advancement of magical
practices starting from Malkuth and ending at Kether. I was wondering if
these corresponded to the colors, or the densities, with Malkuth as one,
Yesod as two, Hod and Netzach being three, Tiphareth four, and so on.
Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is basically incorrect, although you are upon the correct
track of thinking. Each of these stations has a complex number and 
SESSION 44 365
shading of energy centers as well as some part in various balances; the
lower, the middle, the high, and the total balance. Thus there are
complex colors, or rays, and complex charges, if you will, in each station.
44.15 QUESTIONER Well, does the left-hand path of this represent the service-toself path more, and the right-hand path the service-to-others?
R A I am Ra. This will be the last full query of this working.
This is incorrect. These stations are relationships. Each path has these
relationships offered. The intent of the practitioner in working with these
powerful concepts determines the polarity of the working. The tools are
the tools.
44.16 QUESTIONER As an ending question I will just ask is it possible, then, for
the Ipsissimus to have either positive or negative polarity, or must he be
neither?
R A I am Ra. We shall respond to the meaning of this term in a specialized
sense. The Ipsissimus is one who has mastered the Tree of Life and has
used this mastery for negative polarization.
Is there any brief query which we may respond to as we take leave of this
instrument?
44.17 QUESTIONER I am sorry that we got a little off the track today. I think the
most important thing we accomplished is knowing how to better regulate
the instrument’s sessions, and I would hope that you would bear with me
for my inability to select questions properly at times, since I just happen,
sometimes, to probe into areas to see if there is a possible direction we
may go, and once entering, I . . .
Other than that, I would just like to know if there is anything this session
that we could do to make the instrument more comfortable or to improve
the contact?
R A I am Ra. There are no mistakes. Be at rest, my friend. Each of you is
most conscientious. All is well.
I leave you in the love and the light of the One Infinite Creator. Go
forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and in the peace of the One
Infinite Creator. I am Ra. Adonai.
SESSION 45
APRIL 6, 1981
45.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
45.1 QUESTIONER Could you give us an estimate of the instrument’s physical
condition for communications now that she is rested?
R A I am Ra. This instrument’s condition as regards the bodily complex is
extremely poor. This instrument is not rested. However, this instrument
was eager for our contact.
45.2 QUESTIONER Did the period of abstinence from contact help the
instrument’s physical condition?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. The probability of this instrument’s
development of what you would call disease, either of the pulmonary
nature or the renal nature, was quite significant at our previous contact.
You have averted a possible serious physical malfunction of this
instrument’s bodily complex.
It is to be noted that your prayerful support was helpful, as was this
instrument’s unflagging determination to accept that which was best in
the long run and thus maintain the exercises recommended without
undue impatience.
It is to be further noted that those things which aid this instrument are in
some ways contradictory and require balance. Thus this instrument is
aided by rest, but also by diversions of an active nature. This makes it
more difficult to aid this instrument. However, once this is known, the
balancing may be more easily accomplished.
45.3 QUESTIONER Can you tell me if a large percentage of the wanderers here
now are those of Ra?
R A I am Ra. I can.
45.4 QUESTIONER Are they?
R A I am Ra. A significant portion of sixth-density wanderers are those of
our social memory complex. Another large portion consists of those who 
SESSION 45 367
aided those in South America; another portion, those aiding Atlantis—all
sixth density and all brother and sister groups due to the unified feeling
that as we had been aided by shapes such as the pyramid, so we could aid
your peoples.
45.5 QUESTIONER Can you say if any of the three of us are of Ra or one of the
other groups?
R A I am Ra. Yes.
45.6 QUESTIONER Can you say which of us are of which group?
R A I am Ra. No.
45.7 QUESTIONER Are all of us of one of the groups that you mentioned?
R A I am Ra. We shall go to the limits of our attempts to refrain from
infringement. Two are a sixth-density origin, one a fifth-density
harvestable to sixth but choosing to return as a wanderer due to a loving
association between teacher and student. Thus you three form a greatly
cohesive group.
45.8 QUESTIONER Can you explain the right and left ear tone and what I call
touch contact that I continually get?
R A I am Ra. This has been covered previously.1 Please ask for specific
further details.
45.9 QUESTIONER I get what I consider to be a tickling in my right and my left
ear at different times. Is this any different as far as meaning goes as the
tone I get in my right and left ear?
R A I am Ra. No.
45.10 QUESTIONER Why is the left ear of the service-to-self contact and the right
service-to-others?
R A I am Ra. The nature of your physical vehicle is that there is a
magnetic field, positive and negative, in complex patterns about the shells
of your vehicle. The left portion of the head region of most entities is,
upon the time/space continuum level, of a negative polarity.
 1 Covered previously in 44.3–6.
368 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
45.11 QUESTIONER Can you tell me the purpose or philosophy behind the
fourth, fifth-, and sixth-density positive and negative social memory
complexes?
R A I am Ra. The basic purpose of a social memory complex is that of
evolution. Beyond a certain point the evolution of spirit is quite
dependent upon the understanding of self and other-self as Creator. This
constitutes the basis for social complexes. When brought to maturity,
they become social memory complexes. The fourth density and sixth
density find these quite necessary. The fifth positive uses social memory
in attaining wisdom, though this is done individually. In fifth negative
much is done without aid of others.
This is the last query as this instrument needs to be protected from
depletion. Are there brief queries before we close?
45.12 QUESTIONER I just need to know if there is anything we can do to make
the instrument more comfortable or improve the contact?
R A I am Ra. All is well, my brothers.
45.13 QUESTIONER What did you say? I couldn’t hear you. 2
R A I am Ra. All is well, my brothers. I leave you now in the love and in
the light of the One Infinite Creator. Go forth, then, rejoicing in the
power and the peace of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai.
 2 The latter part of this session was interrupted by a water delivery person knocking
on the door and honking his horn. Jim writes: “We had a sign on the front door
asking not to be disturbed, but the fellows who delivered drinking water to fill our
cistern ignored the sign and made every effort to complete their delivery. From
this session on we parked one of our cars at the bottom of the driveway so no
vehicle could pass.”
The constant interruptions are not included in this transcript.
SESSION 46
APRIL 15, 1981
46.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
46.1 QUESTIONER Could we please first have an indication of the instrument’s
condition?
R A I am Ra. This instrument scans at present at extremely low physical
energy and is under attack. This will continue for some of your weeks.
However, the vital energy of this instrument is gradually restoring its
former level.
46.2 QUESTIONER In that case, we’d better ask you only one question unless
you deem it all right to ask any more questions than that. But the one
question that is bothering us, which I got in meditation, may be an
inappropriate question, but I feel it my duty to ask it because it is central
to the instrument’s mental condition and ours.
It has to do with the two cats which we were going to take to have
worked upon today for teeth cleaning and the small growth removed
from Gandalf’s leg. I got the impression that there might be an inroad
there for the Orion group, and I was primarily concerned about anything
that we could do for protection for these two cats. I may be out of line in
asking this, but I feel it my duty to ask it. Would you please give me
information, all the information you can on that subject?
R A I am Ra. The entity, mind/body/spirit complex, Gandalf, being
harvestable third density, is open to the same type of psychic attack to
which you yourselves are vulnerable. Therefore, through the mechanism
of images and dreams, it is potentially possible for negative concepts to be
offered to this mind/body/spirit complex, thus having possible deleterious
results. The entity, Fairchild, though harvestable through investment,
does not have the vulnerability to attack in as great an amount due to a
lack of the mind complex activity in the distortion of conscious devotion.
For protection of these entities we might indicate two possibilities. Firstly,
the meditation putting on the armor of light. Secondly, the repetition of
short ritual sentences known to this instrument from the establishment
which distorts spiritual oneness for this instrument. This instrument’s 
370 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
knowledge will suffice. This will aid due to the alerting of many
discarnate entities also aware of these ritual sentences. The meditation is
appropriate at the time of the activity on behalf of these entities. The
ritual may be repeated with efficacy from this time until the safe return at
convenient intervals.
46.3 QUESTIONER I’m not familiar with the ritual sentences. If the instrument is
familiar you need not answer this, but which sentences do you mean?
RA [Silence. No response from Ra.]
46.4 QUESTIONER I assume the instrument is familiar?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
46.5 QUESTIONER Can you tell me something of the little growth on Gandalf’s
leg, what caused it and if it is a danger to him?
R A I am Ra. The cause of such growths has been previously discussed.
The danger to the physical body complex is slight given the lack of
repeated stimulus to anger.
46.6 QUESTIONER At this time I would ask if we should end the session because
of the instrument’s low vitality, or whether this is irrelevant because of the
dedication to this session already.
R A I am Ra. The latter is correct. You may proceed. We shall monitor the
vital energy of this instrument.
46.7 QUESTIONER I was just wondering, if an entity polarizes toward the
service-to-self path, would the anger have the same physical effect that it
affects an entity polarized toward the service-to-others path? Would it
also cause cancer, or is it just a catalytic effect working in the positively
polarized entity?
R A I am Ra. The catalytic mechanisms are dependent not upon the
chosen polarity of a mind/body/spirit complex, but upon the use, or
purpose, to which this catalysis is put. Thus the entity which uses the
experience of anger to polarize consciously, positively or negatively, does
not experience the bodily catalyst but rather uses the catalyst in mental
configuration.
46.8 QUESTIONER Not sure that I understand that. Let’s take some examples. If
an entity polarizing toward the negative path becomes angry . . . let’s take 
SESSION 46 371
the condition where he develops a cancer. What is the principle of that
for him?
R A I am Ra. We see the thrust of your query and will respond at variance
with the specific query if that meets with your approval.
46.9 QUESTIONER Certainly.
R A The entity polarizing positively perceives the anger. This entity, if
using this catalyst mentally, blesses and loves this anger in itself. It then
intensifies this anger consciously in mind alone until the folly of this redray energy is perceived, not as folly in itself, but as energy subject to
spiritual entropy due to the randomness of energy being used.
Positive orientation then provides the will and faith to continue this
mentally intense experience of letting the anger be understood, accepted,
and integrated with the mind/body/spirit complex. The other-self which
is the object of anger is thus transformed into an object of acceptance,
understanding, and accommodation, all being reintegrated using the great
energy which anger began.
The negatively oriented mind/body/spirit complex will use this anger in a
similarly conscious fashion, refusing to accept the undirected, or random,
energy of anger and instead, through will and faith, funneling this energy
into a practical means of venting the negative aspect of this emotion so as
to obtain control over other-self or otherwise control the situation causing
anger.
Control is the key to negatively polarized use of catalyst. Acceptance is the
key to positively polarized use of catalyst. Between these polarities lies the
potential for this random and undirected energy creating a bodily
complex analog of what you call the cancerous growth of tissue.
46.10 QUESTIONER Then as I understand it you are saying that if the positively
polarizing entity fails to accept the other-self or if the negatively
polarizing entity fails to control the other-self, either of these conditions
will cause cancer, possibly. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is partially correct. The first acceptance or control,
depending upon polarity, is of the self. Anger is one of many things to be
accepted and loved as a part of self or controlled as a part of self, if the
entity is to do work.
372 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
46.11 QUESTIONER Then are you saying that if a negatively polarized or
polarizing entity is unable to control his own anger, or unable to control
himself in anger, that he may cause cancer? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is quite correct. The negative polarization contains a
great requirement for control and repression.
46.12 QUESTIONER A repression of what?
R A I am Ra. Any mind-complex distortion which you may call
emotional, which is of itself disorganized, needs, in order to be useful to
the negatively oriented entity, to be repressed and then brought to the
surface in an organized use. Thus you may find, for instance, negatively
polarized entities controlling and repressing such basic bodily complex
needs as the sexual desire in order that in the practice thereof the will may
be used to enforce itself upon the other-self with greater efficiency when
the sexual behavior is allowed.
46.13 QUESTIONER Then the positively oriented entity, rather than attempting
repression of emotion, would balance the emotion as stated in an earlier
contact. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct and illustrates the path of unity.
46.14 QUESTIONER Then cancer is a training catalyst operating for both
polarities in approximately the same way but attempting, let’s say, to
create polarization in both directions, positive and negative, depending
upon the orientation of the entity experiencing the catalyst. Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect in that catalyst is unconscious and does not
work with intelligence but rather is part of the, shall we say, mechanism
of learn/teaching set up by the sub-Logos before the beginning of your
space/time.
46.15 QUESTIONER How does cancer do this learn/teaching when the entity has
no conscious idea of what is happening to him when he develops cancer?
R A I am Ra. In many cases catalyst is not used.
46.16 QUESTIONER What is the plan for use of the catalyst of cancer?
R A I am Ra. The catalyst, and all catalyst, is designed to offer experience.
This experience in your density may be loved and accepted, or it may be 
SESSION 46 373
controlled. These are the two paths. When neither path is chosen, the
catalyst fails in its design, and the entity proceeds until catalyst strikes it
which causes it to form a bias towards acceptance and love or separation
and control. There is no lack of space/time in which this catalyst may
work.
46.17 QUESTIONER I am assuming that the sub-Logos’ or the Logos’ plan is for
positively and negatively polarized social memory complexes in fourth
density and above. Can you tell me the purpose of the plan for these two
types of social memory complexes with respect, shall we say, to
Coulomb’s Law, or negative and positive electrical polarity, or any way
you can?
R A I am Ra. This instrument grows weary. We shall speak with you
again. We may indicate the possibility, without further harm to this
instrument, of approximately two sessions per your weekly period until
these weeks of potential for attack and presence of very low physical
energy are passed. May we say it is good to be with this group. We
appreciate your fidelity. Are there any brief queries before the end of this
work time?
46.18 QUEST IONER Only if there is anything we can do to make the instrument
more comfortable or improve the contact?
R A I am Ra. Each is supporting the instrument well, and the instrument
remains steady in its purpose. You are conscientious. All is well. We ward
you ware of any laxity regarding the arrangement and orientation of
appurtenances.
I am Ra. I leave you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the One
Infinite Creator. Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and the peace
of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 47
APRIL 18, 1981
47.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
47.1 QUESTIONER Could you first give us an indication of the condition of the
instrument?
R A I am Ra. It is as previously stated.
47.2 QUESTIONER OK. The question that I was trying to ask at the end of the
last session was:
Of what value to evolution or experience in the Creator knowing Himself
are the positive and negative social memory complexes that form starting
in fourth density, and why was this planned by the Logos?
R A I am Ra. There are inherent incorrectnesses in your query. However,
we may answer the main point of it.
The incorrectness lies in the consideration that social memory complexes
were planned by the Logos or sub-Logos. This is incorrect, as the unity of
the Creator exists within the smallest portion of any material created by
Love, much less in a self-aware being.1
However, the distortion of Free Will causes the social memory complex
to appear as a possibility at a certain stage of evolution of mind. The
purpose, or consideration, which causes entities to form such complexes,
of these social memory complexes, is a very simple extension of the basic
distortion towards the Creator’s knowing of Itself, for when a group of
mind/body/spirits become able to form a social memory complex, all
experience of each entity is available to the whole of the complex. Thus
the Creator knows more of Its creation in each entity partaking of this
communion of entities.
47.3 QUESTIONER We chose the values of . . . or were given the values of better
 1 In this context, the idiom much less means “especially so.” Though the phrase is
typically used in negative contexts, it seems that Ra is saying that if the entire
Creator exists in even a microscopic piece of dust, it exists all the more in a selfaware being.
SESSION 47 375
than 50% service to others for fourth-density positive and better than
95% service to self for fourth-density negative social memory complexes.
Do these two values correspond to the same rate, shall I say, of vibration?
R A I am Ra. I perceive you have difficulty in expressing your query. We
shall respond in an attempt to clarify your query.
The vibratory rates are not to be understood as the same in positive and
negative orientations. They are to be understood as having the power to
accept and work with intelligent infinity to a certain degree or intensity.
Due to the fact that the primary color, shall we say, or energy blue is
missing from the negatively oriented system of power, the green/blue
vibratory energies are not seen in the vibratory schedules or patterns of
negative fourth and fifth rates of vibration.
The positive, upon the other hand, shall we say, has the full spectrum of
true-color time/space vibratory patterns and thus contains a variant
vibratory pattern or schedule. Each is capable of doing fourth-density
work. This is the criterion for harvest.
47.4 QUESTIONER Did you say that blue was missing from fourth-density
negative?
R A I am Ra. Let us clarify further. As we have previously stated, all beings
have the potential for all possible vibratory rates. Thus the potential of the
green and blue energy center activation is, of course, precisely where it
must be in a creation of Love. However, the negatively polarized entity
will have achieved harvest due to extremely efficient use of red and
yellow/orange, moving directly to the gateway indigo bringing through
this intelligent energy channel the instreamings of intelligent infinity.
47.5 QUESTIONER Then at fourth-density graduation into fifth is there anything
like the percentages you gave for third-density graduation into fourth for
polarization?
R A I am Ra. There are, in your modes of thinking, responses we can
make, which we shall make. However, the important point is that the
graduations from density to density do occur. The positive/negative
polarity is a thing which will, at the sixth level, simply become history.
Therefore, we speak in an illusory time continuum when we discuss
statistics of positive versus negative harvest into fifth.
376 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
A large percentage of fourth-density negative entities continue the
negative path from fourth- to fifth-density experience, for without
wisdom the compassion and desire to aid other-self is not extremely wellinformed. Thus, though one loses approximately two percent moving
from negative to positive during the fourth-density experience, we find
approximately eight percent of graduations into fifth density those of the
negative.
47.6 QUESTIONER Well, what I was actually asking was if 50% is required for
graduation from third to fourth in the positive sense, 95% is required for
graduation in the negative sense, does this have to more closely approach
100% in both cases for graduation from fourth to fifth? Does an entity
have to be 99% polarized for negative and maybe 80% polarized for
positive graduation from fourth to fifth?
R A I am Ra. We perceive the query now.
To give this in your terms is misleading, for there are, shall we say, visual
aids, or training aids, available in fourth density which automatically aid
the entity in polarization while cutting down extremely upon the quick
effect of catalyst. Thus the density above yours must take up more
space/time.
The percentage of service to others of positively oriented entities will
harmoniously approach 98% in intention. The qualifications for fifth
density, however, involve understanding. This then becomes the primary
qualification for graduation from fourth to fifth density. To achieve this
graduation the entity must be able to understand the actions, the
movements, and the dance. There is no percentage describable which
measures this understanding. It is a measure of efficiency of perception. It
may be measured by light. The ability to love, accept, and use a certain
intensity of light thus creates the requirement for both positive and
negative fourth to fifth harvesting.
47.7 QUESTIONER Can you define what you mean by a “crystallized entity”?
R A I am Ra. We have used this particular term because it has a fairly
precise meaning in your language. When a crystalline structure is formed
of your physical material the elements present in each molecule are
bonded in a regularized fashion with the elements in each other molecule.
Thus the structure is regular and, when fully and perfectly crystallized,
has certain properties. It will not splinter or break; it is very strong 
SESSION 47 377
without effort; and it is radiant, traducing light into a beautiful refraction
giving pleasure of the eye to many.
47.8 QUESTIONER In our esoteric literature numerous bodies are listed. I have
here a list of the physical body, the etheric, the emotional, the astral, and
the mental. Can you tell me if this listing is the proper number, and can
you tell me the uses and purposes and effects, etc., of each of these, or any
other bodies that may be in our mind/body/spirit complex?
R A I am Ra. To answer your query fully would be the work of many
sessions such as this one, for the interrelationships of the various bodies,
and each body’s effects in various situations, is an enormous study.
However, we shall begin by referring your minds back to the spectrum of
true colors and the usage of this understanding in grasping the various
densities of your octave.
We have the number seven repeated from the macrocosm to the
microcosm in structure and experience. Therefore, it would only be
expected that there would be seven basic bodies which we would perhaps
be most lucid by stating as red-ray body, etc. However, we are aware that
you wish to correspond these bodies mentioned with the color rays. This
will be confusing, for various teachers have offered their teach/learning
understanding in various terms. Thus one may name a subtle body one
thing and another find a different name.
The red-ray body is your chemical body. However, it is not the body
which you have as clothing in the physical. It is the unconstructed
material of the body, the elemental body without form. This basic
unformed material body is important to understand, for there are healings
which may be carried out by the simple understanding of the elements
present in the physical vehicle.
The orange-ray body is the physical body complex. This body complex is
still not the body you inhabit but rather the body formed without selfawareness, the body in the womb before the spirit/mind complex enters.
This body may live without the inhabitation of the mind and spirit
complexes. However, it seldom does so.
The yellow-ray body is your physical vehicle which you know of at this
time and in which you experience catalyst. This body has the
mind/body/spirit characteristics and is equal to the physical illusion, as
you have called it.
378 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
The green-ray body is that body which may be seen in séance when what
you call ectoplasm is furnished. This is a lighter body packed more
densely with life. You may call this the astral body following some other
teachings. Others have called this same body the etheric body. However,
this is not correct in the sense that the etheric body is that body of
gateway wherein intelligent energy is able to mold the mind/body/spirit
complex.
The light body, or blue-ray body, may be called the devachanic body.
There are many other names for this body, especially in your so-called
Indian Sutras or writings, for there are those among these peoples which
have explored these regions and understand the various types of
devachanic bodies. There are many, many types of bodies in each density,
much like your own.
The indigo-ray body, which we choose to call the etheric body, is, as we
have said, the gateway body. In this body form is substance, and you may
only see this body as that of light as it may mold itself as it desires.
The violet-ray body may perhaps be understood as what you might call
the Buddha body, or that body which is complete.
Each of these bodies has an effect upon your mind/body/spirit complex in
your life beingness. The interrelationships, as we have said, are many and
complex.
Perhaps one suggestion that may be indicated is this: The indigo-ray body
may be used by the healer once the healer becomes able to place its
consciousness in this etheric state. The violet-ray, or Buddhic, body is of
equal efficacy to the healer, for within it lies a sense of wholeness which is
extremely close to unity with all that there is. These bodies are part of
each entity, and the proper use of them, and understanding of them is,
though far advanced from the standpoint of third-density harvest,
nevertheless useful to the adept.
47.9 QUESTIONER Which bodies do we have immediately after physical death
from this yellow-ray body that I now inhabit?
R A I am Ra. You have all bodies in potentiation.
47.10 QUESTIONER Then the yellow-ray body in potentiation is used to create
the chemical arrangement that I have as a physical body now. Is this
correct?
SESSION 47 379
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect only in that in your present incarnation the
yellow-ray body is not in potentiation but in activation, it being that
body which is manifest.
47.11 QUESTIONER Then, after death from this incarnation we still have the
yellow-ray body in potentiation, but then is, perhaps, say in the general
case of our planetary population after death, would they then normally
have the green-ray body manifested?
R A I am Ra. Not immediately. The first body which activates itself upon
death is the “form-maker,” or the indigo-ray body. This body remains—
you have called it the “ka”—until etherea has been penetrated and
understanding has been gained by the mind/body/spirit totality. Once
this is achieved, if the proper body to be activated is green-ray, then this
will occur.
47.12 QUESTIONER Let me make a statement and see if I am correct. After death,
then, if an entity is unaware, he may become what is called an earthbound spirit until he is able to achieve the required awareness for
activation of one of the bodies. And it would be possible then to activate
any of the bodies—would this go all the way from red through violet?
R A I am Ra. Given the proper stimulus, this is correct.
47.13 QUESTIONER What stimulus would create what we call an earth-bound
spirit or a lingering ghost?
R A I am Ra. The stimulus for this is the faculty of the will. If the will of
yellow-ray mind/body/spirit [complex] is that which is stronger than the
progressive impetus of the physical death towards realization of that
which comes—that is, if the will is concentrated enough upon the
previous experience—the entity’s shell of yellow ray, though no longer
activated, cannot either be completely deactivated and, until the will is
released, the mind/body/spirit complex is caught. This often occurs, as we
see you are aware, in the case of sudden death as well as in the case of
extreme concern for a thing or an other-self.
47.14 QUESTIONER Well then, does orange-ray activation, after death, occur very
frequently with this planet?
R A I am Ra. Quite infrequently, due to the fact that this particular
manifestation is without will. Occasionally an other-self will so demand 
380 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
the form of the one passing through the physical death that some
semblance of the being will remain. This is orange ray. This is rare, for
normally if one entity desires another enough to call it, the entity will
have the corresponding desire to be called. Thus the manifestation would
be the shell of yellow ray.
47.15 QUESTIONER What does the large percentage of the earth’s population, as
they pass from the physical, activate?
R A I am Ra. This shall be the last full query of this working.
The normal procedure, given an harmonious passage from yellow-ray
bodily manifestation, is for the mind and spirit complex to rest in the
etheric, or indigo, body until such time as the entity begins its
preparation for experience in an incarnated place which has a
manifestation formed by the etheric energy molding it into activation and
manifestation. This indigo body, being intelligent energy, is able to offer
the newly dead, as you would term it, soul a perspective and a place from
which to view the experience most recently manifested.
Is there a short query we may answer at this time?
47.16 QUESTIONER I will only ask if there is anything we can do to make the
instrument more comfortable or improve the contact?
R A I am Ra. The appurtenances are conscientiously measured by eye and
spirit. You are conscientious. All is well. Observe this instrument to
ensure continued building of the vital energies. It will have to work upon
its own physical energies, for this weakness was brought about by free will
of the self.
I am Ra. We leave you now in the love and in the light of the One
Infinite Creator. Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and in the
peace of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 48
APRIL 22, 1981
48.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
48.1 QUESTIONER Could you tell me of the instrument’s condition and if she is
improving with time?
R A I am Ra. This instrument’s vital energies are improving with time, as
you measure it. This instrument’s physical energies are less than your
previous asking.
48.2 QUESTIONER I have a question from the instrument that I will read: “You
have suggested several times that sexual energy transfers aid the
instrument’s vital energy and this contact. It seems that this is not true for
all people; that the sexual circuitry and the spiritual circuitry are not the
same. Is this instrument an anomaly, or is the positive effect of sexual
activity on spiritual energy normal for all third-density beings?”
R A I am Ra. This instrument, though not anomalous, is somewhat less
distorted towards the separation of mind, body, and spirit than many of
your third-density entities. The energies of sexual transfer would, if run
through the undeveloped spiritual, electrical, or magnetic complex which
you call circuitry, effectually blow out that particular circuit. Contrarily,
the full spiritual energies run through bodily complex circuitry will also
adversely affect the undeveloped circuit of the bodily complex.
Some there are, such as this instrument, who have not, in the particular
incarnation, chosen at any time to express sexual energy through the
bodily circuitry. Thus from the beginning of such an entity’s experience
the body and spirit express together in any sexual action. Therefore, to
transfer sexual energy for this instrument is to transfer spiritually as well
as physically. This instrument’s magnetic field, if scrutinized by one
sensitive, will show these unusual configurations.
This is not unique to one entity but is common to a reasonable number
of entities who, having lost the desire for orange- and green-ray1 sexual
experiences, have strengthened the combined circuitry of spirit, mind,
 1 Ra said “green-ray,” but presumably meant “yellow-ray.”
382 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
and body to express the totality of beingness in each action. It is for this
reason also that the social intercourse and companionship is very
beneficial to this instrument, it being sensitive to the more subtle energy
transfers.
48.3 QUESTIONER Thank you. If you, Ra, as an individualized entity were
incarnate on Earth now with full awareness and memory of what you
know now, what would be your objective at this time on Earth as far as
activities are concerned?
R A I am Ra. The query suggests that which has been learned to be
impractical. However, were we to again be naïve enough to think that our
physical presence was any more effective than that love/light we send your
peoples and the treasure of this contact, we would do as we did do. We
would be, and we would offer our selves as teach/learners.
48.4 QUESTIONER Knowing what you know now about our planetary condition
and methods of communication, etc., if you, yourself, as an individual,
had gone through the process of incarnation here as a wanderer and now
have memory of a sufficient way to have the objective that you just stated,
what mechanisms would you seek out for the process of teach/learning in
our present state of communication?
R A I am Ra. My brother, we perceive you have made certain unspoken
connections. We acknowledge these and, for this reason, cannot infringe
upon your confusion.
48.5 QUESTIONER I was afraid of that.
My lecture yesterday2 was attended by only a few. If this had occurred
during a UFO flap, as we call them, many more would have attended.
But since Orion entities cause the flaps, primarily, what is Orion’s
reward, shall I say, for visibility in that they actually create greater chances
and opportunities for dissemination of information such as mine at this
time?
R A I am Ra. This assumption is incorrect. The flaps cause many fears
among your peoples, many speakings, understandings concerning plots,
 2 The lecture was titled “The Spiritual Significance of UFOs,” given at Jefferson
Community College on April 21, 1981. A transcript of the lecture can be found in
the speeches section on www.llresearch.org.
SESSION 48 383
cover-ups, mutilations, killings, and other negative impressions. Even
those supposedly positive reports which gain public awareness speak of
doom. You may understand yourself as one who will be in the minority
due to the understandings which you wish to share, if we may use that
misnomer.
We perceive there is a further point we may posit at this time. The
audience brought about by Orion-type publicity is not seeded by
seniority of vibration to a great extent. The audiences receiving
teach/learnings without stimulus from publicity will be more greatly
oriented towards illumination. Therefore, forget you the counting.
48.6 QUESTIONER Thank you. That cleared it up very well. A very important
point.
Can you tell me how positive and negative polarizations in fourth and
fifth density are used to cause work in consciousness?
R A I am Ra. There is very little work in consciousness in fourth and in
fifth densities compared to the work done in third density. The work that
is accomplished in positive fourth is that work whereby the positive social
memory complex, having through slow stages harmoniously integrated
itself, goes forth to aid those of less positive orientation which seek their
aid. Thus their service is their work.
And through this dynamic between the societal self and the other-self
which is the object of love, greater and greater intensities of
understanding or compassion are attained. This intensity continues until
the appropriate intensity of the light may be welcomed. This is fourthdensity harvest.
Within fourth-density positive there are minor amounts of catalyst of a
spiritual- and mental-complex distortion. This occurs during the process
of harmonizing to the extent of forming the social memory complex. This
causes some small catalyst and work to occur, but the great work of
fourth density lies in the contact betwixt the societal self and less
polarized other-self.
In fourth-density negative much work is accomplished during the
fighting for position which precedes the period of the social memory
complex. There are opportunities to polarize negatively by control of
other-selves. During the social memory complex period of fourth-density 
384 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
negative, the situation is the same. The work takes place through the
societal reaching out to less polarized other-self in order to aid in negative
polarization.
In fifth-density positive and negative the concept of work done through a
potential difference is not particularly helpful as fifth-density entities are,
again, intensifying rather than potentiating.
In positive, the fifth-density complex uses sixth-density teach/learners to
study the more illuminated understandings of unity, thus becoming more
and more wise. Fifth-density positive social memory complexes often will
choose to divide their service to others in two ways: first, the beaming of
light to creation; second, the sending of groups to be of aid as instruments
of light such as those whom you’re familiar with through channels.
In fifth-density negative, service to self has become extremely intense and
the self has shrunk or compacted so that the dialogues with the
teach/learners are used exclusively in order to intensify wisdom. There are
very, very few fifth-density negative wanderers for they fear the forgetting.
There are very, very few fifth-density Orion members for they do not any
longer perceive any virtue in other-selves.3
48.7 QUESTIONER Thank you. I would like to take as an example an entity, at
birth, who is roughly high on the seniority list for positive polarization
and possible harvestability at the end of this cycle, and follow a full cycle
of his experience starting before his incarnation—which body is activated,
process of becoming incarnate, the activation of the third-density physical
body process as the body moves through this density and is acted upon by
catalyst, and then the process of death, and the activation of the various
bodies—so that we make a full circuit from a point prior to incarnation
back around through incarnation and death and back to that position,
you might say, in one cycle of incarnation in this density. Could you do
that for me?
R A I am Ra. Your query is most distorted, for it assumes that creations
are alike. Each mind/body/spirit complex has its own patterns of
activation and its own rhythms of awakening. The important thing for
harvest is the harmonious balance between the various energy centers of
 3 It is unclear and subject to interpretation, but this information about the number
of fifth-density entities comprising the Orion group may contradict information
given in 7.15.
SESSION 48 385
the mind/body/spirit complex. This is to be noted as of relative import.
We grasp the thrust of your query and will make a most general answer
stressing the unimportance of such arbitrary generalizations.
The entity, before incarnation, dwells in the appropriate, shall we say,
place in time/space. The true-color type of this location will be dependent
upon the entity’s needs. Those entities, for instance, which, being
wanderers, have the green, blue, or indigo true-color core of
mind/body/spirit complex will have rested therein.
Entrance into incarnation requires the investment, or activation, of the
indigo-ray, or etheric body, for this is the form maker. The young, or
small, physical mind/body/spirit complex has the seven energy centers
potentiated before the birthing process. There are also analogs in
time/space of these energy centers corresponding to the seven energy
centers in each of the seven true-color densities. Thus in the microcosm
exists all the experience that is prepared. It is as though the infant
contains the universe.
The patterns of activation of an entity of high seniority will undoubtedly
move with some rapidity to the green-ray level which is the springboard
to primary blue. There is always some difficulty in penetrating blue
primary energy, for it requires that which your people have in great
paucity; that is, honesty. Blue ray is the ray of free communication with
self and with other-self.
Having accepted that an harvestable or nearly harvestable entity will be
working from this green-ray springboard, one may then posit that the
experiences in the remainder of the incarnation will be focused upon
activation of the primary blue ray of freely given communication; of
indigo ray, that of freely shared intelligent energy; and, if possible,
moving through this gateway, the penetration of violet-ray intelligent
infinity. This may be seen to be manifested by a sense of the consecrate,
or hallowed, nature of everyday creations and activities.
Upon the bodily complex death, as you call this transition, the entity will
immediately, upon realization of its state, return to the indigo formmaker body and rest therein until the proper future placement is made.
Here we have the anomaly of harvest. In harvest the entity will then
transfer its indigo body into violet-ray manifestation as seen in true-color
yellow. This is for the purpose of gauging the harvestability of the entity. 
386 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
After this anomalous activity has been carefully completed, the entity will
move into indigo body again and be placed in the correct true-color locus
in space/time and time/space, at which time the healings and
learn/teachings necessary shall be completed and further incarnation
needs determined.
48.8 QUESTIONER Who, shall we say, supervises the determination of further
incarnation needs and sets up the seniority list, shall I say, for
incarnation?
R A I am Ra. This is a query with two answers.
Firstly, there are those directly under the Guardians who are responsible
for the incarnation patterns of those incarnating automatically—that is,
without conscious self-awareness of the process of spiritual evolution. You
may call these beings angelic if you prefer. They are, shall we say, local, or
of your planetary sphere.
The seniority of vibration is to be likened unto placing various grades of
liquids in the same glass. Some will rise to the top; others will sink to the
bottom. Layers and layers of entities will ensue. As harvest draws near,
those filled with the most light and love will naturally, and without
supervision, be in line, shall we say, for the experience of incarnation.
When the entity becomes aware in its mind/body/spirit complex totality
of the mechanism for spiritual evolution, it, itself, will arrange and place
those lessons and entities necessary for maximum growth and expression
of polarity in the incarnative experience before the forgetting process
occurs. The only disadvantage of this total free will of those senior entities
choosing the manner of incarnation experiences is that some entities
attempt to learn so much during one incarnative experience that the
intensity of catalyst disarranges the polarized entity and the experience
thus is not maximally useful as intended.
48.9 QUESTIONER An analogy to that would be a student entering college and
signing up for more courses than he could possibly assimilate in the time.
Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
48.10 QUESTIONER Could you tell me how the various bodies, red through
violet, are linked to the energy center, centers red through violet? Are they
linked in some way?
SESSION 48 387
R A I am Ra. This shall be the last full query of this working.
As we have noted, each of the true-color densities has the seven energy
centers, and each entity contains all this in potentiation. The activation,
while in yellow ray, of violet-ray intelligent infinity is a passport to the
next octave of experience.
There are adepts who have penetrated many, many of the energy centers
and several of the true colors. This must be done with utmost care while
in the physical body, for as we noted when speaking of the dangers of
linking red/orange/yellow circuitry with true-color blue circuitry, the
potential for disarrangement of the mind/body/spirit complex is great.
However, the entity who penetrates intelligent infinity is basically capable
of walking the universe with unfettered tread.
Is there any brief query before we leave this instrument?
48.11 QUESTIONER Just if there is anything that we can do to make the
instrument more comfortable or improve the contact?
R A I am Ra. All is well. As we have said, this instrument is weak
physically, and continued work times will lengthen this weakness. The
continued contact also aids in the continued climb in vital energy of the
instrument, as well as the integration and vital energy of the group as an
unit. The choice is yours. We are pleased. All is well. You are
conscientious. Continue so.
I am Ra. I leave you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. Go forth, then, my friends, rejoicing in the power and in the
peace of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 49
APRIL 27, 1981
49.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
49.1 QUESTIONER Would you please first give us a reading on the instrument’s
condition?
R A I am Ra. It is as previously stated.
49.2 QUESTIONER Thank you. I have a question here from Jim first. He says:
“For the past nine years I have had what I call frontal lobes experiences in
the pre-consciousness state of sleep just before I wake up in the morning.
They are a combination of pleasure and pressure which begins in the
frontal lobes and spreads in pulses through the whole brain and feels like
an orgasm in my brain. I have had over 200 of these experiences, and
often they are accompanied by visions and voices which seldom make
much sense to me. What is the source of these frontal lobes experiences?”
R A I am Ra. We scan the questioner and find some pertinent information
already available which regards the physiological disposition of this
particular part of the brain. The experiences described and experienced
are those distillations which may be experienced after a concentration of
effort upon the opening of the gateway, or indigo, mind complex so that
experience of a sacramental, or violet, ray may occur. These experiences
are the beginnings of that which—as the body, the mind, and the spirit
become integrated at the gateway, or indigo, level—may then yield not
only the experience of joy but the comprehension of intelligent infinity
which accompanies it. Thus the body complex orgasm and mind complex
orgasm, becoming integrated, may then set forth the proper gateway for
the spiritual complex integration and its use as a shuttle for the sacrament
of the fully experienced presence of the One Infinite Creator. Thus there
is much to which the questioner may look forward.
49.3 QUESTIONER [to Jim] Do you have any addition to that question?
JIM No. Thanks.
QUESTIONER [to Jim] Okay.
SESSION 49 389
[to Ra] I was wondering—in a previous session you had mentioned the
left and right ear tones—if the left and the right brain were somehow
related to the polarities of service to self and service to others. Could you
comment on this?
R A I am Ra. We may comment on this.
49.4 QUESTIONER Well, please . . . will you go ahead and comment on it?
R A I am Ra. The lobes of your physical complex brain are alike in their
use of weak electrical energy. The entity ruled by intuition and impulse is
equal to the entity governed by rational analysis when polarity is
considered. The lobes may both be used for service to self or service to
others.
It may seem that the rational, or analytical, mind might have more of a
possibility of successfully pursuing the negative orientation due to the fact
that, in our understanding, too much order is, by its essence, negative.
However, this same ability to structure abstract concepts and to analyze
experiential data may be the key to rapid positive polarization. It may be
said that those whose analytical capacities are predominant have
somewhat more to work with in polarizing.
The function of intuition is to inform intelligence. In your illusion the
unbridled predominance of intuition will tend to keep an entity from the
greater polarizations due to the vagaries of intuitive perception. As you
may see, these two types of brain structure need to be balanced in order
that the net sum of experiential catalyst will be polarization and
illumination, for without the acceptance by the rational mind of the
worth of the intuitive faculty, the creative aspects which aid in
illumination will be stifled.
There is one correspondence between right and left, and positive and
negative. The web of energy which surrounds your bodies contains
somewhat complex polarizations. The left area of the head and upper
shoulder is most generally seen to be of a negative polarization, whereas
the right is of positive polarization, magnetically speaking. This is the
cause of the tone’s meaning for you.
49.5 QUESTIONER Will you expand on the positive and negative magnetic
polarizations in general and how it applies to, say, individuals and planets,
etc.? I think there is a correlation here, but I’m not sure.
390 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. It is correct that there is a correlation between the energy
field of an entity of your nature and planetary bodies, for all material is
constructed by means of the dynamic tension of the magnetic field. The
lines of force in both cases may be seen to be much like the interweaving
spirals of the braided hair. Thus positive and negative wind and
interweave forming geometric relationships in the energy fields of both
persons, as you would call a mind/body/spirit complex, and planets.
The negative pole is the south pole, or the lower pole. The north, or
upper pole, is positive. The crisscrossings of these spiraling energies form
primary, secondary, and tertiary energy centers. You are familiar with the
primary energy centers of the physical, mental, and spiritual body
complex. Secondary points of the crisscrossing of positive and negative
center orientation revolve about several of your centers. The yellow-ray
center may be seen to have secondary energy centers in elbow, in knee,
and in the subtle bodies at a slight spacing from the physical vehicle at
points describing diamonds about the entity’s navel area surrounding the
body.
One may examine each of the energy centers for such secondary centers.
Some of your peoples work with these energy centers, and you call this
acupuncture. However, it is to be noted that there are most often
anomalies in the placement of the energy centers so that the scientific
precision of this practice is brought into question. Like most scientific
attempts at precision, it fails to take into account the unique qualities of
each creation.
The most important concept to grasp about the energy field is that the
lower, or negative pole, will draw the universal energy into itself from the
cosmos. Therefrom it will move upward to be met and reacted to by the
positive spiraling energy moving downward from within. The measure of
an entity’s level of ray activity is the locus wherein the south pole outer
energy has been met by the inner spiraling positive energy.
As an entity grows more polarized this locus will move upwards. This
phenomenon has been called by your peoples the kundalini. However, it
may better be thought of as the meeting place of cosmic and inner, shall
we say, vibratory understanding. To attempt to raise the locus of this
meeting without realizing the metaphysical principles of magnetism upon
which this depends is to invite great imbalance.
SESSION 49 391
49.6 QUESTIONER What process would be the recommended process for
correctly awakening, as they say, the kundalini, and of what value would
that be?
R A I am Ra. The metaphor of the coiled serpent being called upwards is
vastly appropriate for consideration by your peoples. This is what you are
attempting when you seek. There are, as we have stated, great
misapprehensions concerning this metaphor and the nature of pursuing
its goal.1 We must generalize and ask that you grasp the fact that this, in
effect, renders far less useful that which we share. However, as each entity
is unique, generalities are our lot when communicating for your possible
edification.
We have two types of energy. We are attempting, then, as entities in any
true color of this octave, to move the meeting place of inner and outer
natures further and further along, or upward along, the energy centers.
The two methods of approaching this with sensible method are first, the
seating within one’s self of those experiences which are attracted to the
entity through the south pole. Each experience will need to be observed,
experienced, balanced, accepted, and seated within the individual. As the
entity grows in self-acceptance and awareness of catalyst, the location of
the comfortable seating of these experiences will rise to the new true-color
entity. The experience, whatever it may be, will be seated in red ray and
considered as to its survival content and so forth.
Each experience will be sequentially understood by the growing and
seeking mind/body/spirit complex in terms of survival, then in terms of
personal identity, then in terms of social relations, then in terms of
universal love, then in terms of how the experience may beget free
communication, then in terms of how the experience may be linked to
universal energies, and finally in terms of the sacramental nature of each
experience.
Meanwhile the Creator lies within. In the north pole the crown is already
upon the head and the entity is potentially a god. This energy is brought
into being by the humble and trusting acceptance of this energy through
meditation and contemplation of the self and of the Creator.
 1 Stated in the previous passage, 49.5.
392 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Where these energies meet is where the serpent will have achieved its
height. When this uncoiled energy approaches universal love and radiant
being the entity is in a state whereby the harvestability of the entity comes
nigh.
49.7 QUESTIONER Will you recommend a technique of meditation?
R A I am Ra. No.
49.8 QUESTIONER Is it better, or shall I say, does it produce more usable results
in meditation to leave the mind, shall I say, as blank as possible—let it
run down, so to speak—or is it better to focus in meditation on some
object or some thing for concentration?
R A I am Ra. This shall be the last full query of this work time.
Each of the two types of meditation is useful for a particular reason. The
passive meditation involving the clearing of the mind—the emptying of
the mental jumble which is characteristic of mind complex activity among
your peoples—is efficacious for those whose goal is to achieve an inner
silence as a base from which to listen to the Creator. This is an useful and
helpful tool, and is, by far, the most generally useful type of meditation as
opposed to contemplation or prayer.
The type of meditation which may be called visualization has as its goal
not that which is contained in the meditation itself. Visualization is the
tool of the adept. Those who learn to hold visual images in mind are
developing an inner concentrative power that can transcend boredom and
discomfort. When this ability has become crystallized in an adept, the
adept may then do polarizing in consciousness without external action
which can affect the planetary consciousness. This is the reason for
existence of the so-called white magician. Only those wishing to pursue
the conscious raising of planetary vibration will find visualization to be a
particularly satisfying type of meditation.
Contemplation, or the consideration in a meditative state of an inspiring
image or text, is extremely useful also among your peoples, and the
faculty of will called praying is also of a potentially helpful nature.
Whether it is, indeed, an helpful activity depends quite totally upon the
intentions and objects of the one who prays.
May we ask if there are any brief queries at this time?
SESSION 49 393
49.9 Q UESTIONER I will just ask if there is anything we may do to make the
instrument more comfortable or to improve the contact and if the two
sessions per week are still appropriate?
R A I am Ra. We request your care in the placement of the neck support
for this entity as it is too often careless. You are conscientious, and your
alignments are well. The timing, if we may use that expression, of the
sessions is basically correct. However, you are to be commended for
observing fatigue in the circle and refraining from a working until all were
in love, harmony, and vital energy as one being. This is, and will continue
to be, most helpful.
I am Ra. I leave you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and in the peace of
the One Infinite Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 50
MAY 6, 1981
50.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
50.1 QUESTIONER Could you please give me an indication of the instrument’s
condition now?
R A I am Ra. It is as previously stated.
50.2 QUESTIONER In the last session you made the statement that experiences
are attracted to the entity through the south pole. Could you expand on
that and give us a definition of what you mean?
R A I am Ra. It takes some consideration to accomplish the proper
perspective for grasping the sense of the above information. The south, or
negative, pole is one which attracts. It pulls unto itself those things
magnetized to it. So with the mind/body/spirit complex the in-flow of
experience is of the south pole influx. You may consider this a simplistic
statement.
The only specific part of this correctness is that the red-ray, or foundation
energy center, being the lowest, or root, energy center of the physical
vehicle, will have the first opportunity to react to any experience. In this
way only you may see a physical locus of the south pole being identified
with the root energy center. In every facet of mind and body the root, or
foundation, will be given the opportunity to function first.
What is this opportunity but survival? This is the root possibility of
response and may be found to be characteristic of the basic functions of
both mind and body. You will find this instinct the strongest, and once
this is balanced much is open to the seeker. The south pole then ceases
blocking the experiential data, and higher energy centers of mind and
body become availed of the opportunity to use the experience drawn to it.
50.3 QUESTIONER Why do you say the experience is drawn to, or attracted to,
the entity?
SESSION 50 395
R A I am Ra. We say this due to our understanding that this is the nature
of the phenomenon of experiential catalyst and its entry into the
mind/body/spirit complex’s awareness.
50.4 QUESTIONER Could you give an example of how an entity sets up a
condition for attracting a particular experiential catalyst and how that
catalyst then is provided or is learned.
R A I am Ra. Such an example may be given.
50.5 QUESTIONER Will you give that?
R A I am Ra. We paused to scan this instrument’s consciousness for
permission to use its experiential catalyst as example. We may proceed.
This is one instance, and extrapolation may be made to other entities
which are aware of the process of evolution. This entity chose, before
incarnation, the means whereby catalyst had great probability of being
obtained. This entity desired the process of expressing love and light
without expecting any return. This instrument programmed also to
endeavor to accomplish spiritual work and to comfort itself with
companionship in the doing of this work.
Agreements were made prior to incarnation; the first, with the so-called
parents and siblings of this entity. This provided the experiential catalyst
for the situation of offering radiance of being without expectation of
return. The second program involved agreements with several entities.
These agreements provided and will provide, in your time/space and
space/time continuum, opportunities for the experiential catalyst of work
and comradeship.
There are events which were part of a program for this entity only in that
they were possibility/probability vortices having to do with your societal
culture. These events include the nature of the living, or standard of
living; the type of relationships entered into in your legal framework; and
the social climate during the incarnation. The incarnation was
understood to be one which would take place at harvest.
These givens, shall we say, apply to millions of your peoples: those aware
of evolution and desirous in the very extreme of attaining the heart of
love and the radiance which gives understanding. No matter what the
lessons programmed, they have to do with other-selves, not with events. 
396 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
They have to do with giving, not receiving; for the lessons of love are of
this nature both for positive and negative. Those negatively harvestable
will be found at this time endeavoring to share their love of self.
There are those whose lessons are more random due to their present
inability to comprehend the nature and mechanism of the evolution of
mind, body, and spirit. Of these we may say that the process is guarded
by those who never cease their watchful expectation of being of service.
There is no entity without help, either through self-awareness of the unity
of creation, or through guardians of the self which protect the less
sophisticated mind/body/spirit from any permanent separation from
unity while the lessons of your density continue.
50.6 QUESTIONER Could you give an example of negative polarization sharing
love of self? It would seem to me that that would deplete negative
polarization. Could you expand on that concept?
R A I am Ra. We may not use examples of known beings due to the
infringement this would cause. Thus we must be general.
The negatively oriented being will be one who feels that it has found
power that gives meaning to its existence precisely as the positive
polarization does feel. This negative entity will strive to offer these
understandings to other-selves, most usually by the process of forming the
elite, the disciples, and teaching the need and rightness of the
enslavement of other-selves for their own good. These other-selves are
conceived to be dependent upon the self and in need of the guidance and
the wisdom of the self.
50.7 QUESTIONER Thank you. Can you expand on the concept which is this:
that it is necessary for an entity to, during incarnation in the physical, as
we call it, become polarized or interact properly with other entities, and
why this isn’t possible in between incarnations when he is aware of what
he wants to do, but why must he come into an incarnation and lose
memory, conscious memory, of what he wants to do and then act in a
way that he hopes to act? Could you expand on that please?
R A I am Ra. Let us give the example of the man who sees all the poker
hands. He then knows the game. It is but child’s play to gamble, for it is
no risk. The other hands are known. The possibilities are known and the
hand will be played correctly but with no interest.
SESSION 50 397
In time/space and in the true-color green density, the hands of all are
open to the eye. The thoughts, the feelings, the troubles: all these may be
seen. There is no deception and no desire for deception. Thus much may
be accomplished in harmony, but the mind/body/spirit gains little
polarity from this interaction.
Let us re-examine this metaphor and multiply it into the longest poker
game you can imagine: a lifetime. The cards are love, dislike, limitation,
unhappiness, pleasure, etc. They are dealt, and re-dealt, and re-dealt
continuously. You may, during this incarnation begin—and we stress
begin—to know your own cards. You may begin to find the love within
you. You may begin to balance your pleasure, your limitations, etc.
However, your only indication of other-selves’ cards is to look into the
eyes.
You cannot remember your hand, their hands, perhaps even the rules of
this game. This game can only be won by those who lose their cards in
the melting influence of love; can only be won by those who lay their
pleasures, their limitations, their all upon the table face up and say
inwardly: “All, all of you players, each other-self, whatever your hand, I
love you.”
This is the game: to know, to accept, to forgive, to balance, and to open
the self in love. This cannot be done without the forgetting, for it would
carry no weight in the life of the mind/body/spirit beingness totality.
50.8 QUESTIONER Thank you. How does the ability to hold visual images in
mind allow the adept to do polarization in consciousness without external
action?
R A I am Ra. This is not a simple query, for the adept is one which will go
beyond the green ray which signals entry into harvestability. The adept
will not simply be tapping into intelligent energy as a means of readiness
for harvest, but tapping into both intelligent energy and intelligent
infinity for the purpose of transmuting planetary harvestability and
consciousness.
The means of this working lie within. The key is first, silence, and
secondly, singleness of thought. Thusly a visualization which can be held
steady to the inward eye for several of your minutes, as you measure time,
will signal the adept’s increase in singleness of thought. This singleness of
thought, then, can be used by the positive adept to work in group ritual 
398 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
visualizations for the raising of positive energy, by negative adepts for the
increase in personal power.
50.9 QUESTIONER Can you tell me how the adept then, after being able to hold
the image for several minutes, what he does then to affect planetary
consciousness or increase positive polarity? I still don’t quite understand
about this.
R A I am Ra. When the positive adept touches intelligent infinity from
within, this is the most powerful of connections, for it is the connection
of the whole mind/body/spirit complex microcosm with the macrocosm.
This connection enables the, shall we say, green-ray true color in
time/space to manifest in your time/space.1 In green ray, thoughts are
beings. In your illusion this is normally not so.
The adepts then become living channels for love and light and are able to
channel this radiance directly into the planetary web of energy nexi. The
ritual will always end by the grounding of this energy in praise and
thanksgiving and the release of this energy into the planetary whole.
50.10 QUESTIONER I know of people who have been recently trained in
meditation who, after a very short period of intense meditation, a couple
of days or so, are able to cause the action at a distance effect on metal,
bending it. It’s my understanding that they are wearing a pyramid-shaped
wire on their heads while doing this. I was invited to one of the
meditation sessions a couple of years ago, but I couldn’t get there. Could
you comment on this process, and if they are accomplishing anything of
value or not?
R A I am Ra. No. Please ask one more full query at this working.
50.11 QUESTIONER Could you give me more information on the energy fields of
the body as relates to the right and left brain and if this is somehow
related to the pyramid shape as far as energy focusing goes? I am a little
lost at exactly how to get into this line of questioning, so I will ask that
question.
R A I am Ra. We are similarly at a loss at this line of answering. We may
 1 It is possible that Ra intended to say “This connection enables the, shall we say,
green-ray true color in time/space to manifest in your space/time,” but it was
never corrected as an error and thus is open for speculation.
SESSION 50 399
say that the pyramid shape is but one which focuses the instreamings of
energy for use by entities which may become aware of these instreamings.
We may say further that the shape of your physical brain is not significant
as a shape for concentrating instreamings of energy. Please ask more
specifically, if you may, that information you seek.
50.12 QUESTIONER Each of us feel, in meditation, energy on the head in various
places. Could you tell me what this is and what it signifies, and what the
various places that we feel it signify?
RA I am Ra. Forgetting the pyramid will be of aid to you in the study of
these experiences. The instreamings of energy are felt by the energy
centers which need, and are prepared for, activation. Thus those who feel
the stimulation at violet-ray level are getting just that. Those feeling it
within the forehead between the brows are experiencing indigo ray and so
forth. Those experiencing tinglings and visual images are having some
blockage in the energy center being activated, and thus the electrical body
spreads this energy out and its effect is diffused.
Those not truly sincerely requesting this energy may yet feel it if the
entities are not well-trained in psychic defense. Those not desirous of
experiencing these sensations and activations and changes, even upon the
subconscious level, will not experience anything due to their abilities at
defense and armoring against change.
50.13 QUESTIONER Right now I’m getting two feelings simultaneously. Is this
normal to get two at once?
R A I am Ra. The most normal for the adept is the following: the indigo
stimulation, activating that great gateway into healing, magical work,
prayerful attention, and the radiance of being; and the stimulation of the
violet ray which is the spiritual giving and taking from and to Creator,
from Creator to Creator.
This is a desirable configuration.
Is there a brief query before we leave this instrument?
50.14 QUESTIONER Is there anything that we can do to make the instrument
more comfortable or improve the contact?
400 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. You are conscientious and your alignments are careful. It
would be well to take care that this instrument’s neck is placed carefully
upon its support.
I am Ra. I leave you, my friends, in the love and the light of the One
Infinite Creator. Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power and in the peace
of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 51
MAY 13, 1981
51.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
51.1 QUESTIONER As we begin this session, Book III of The Law Of One, there
are a couple of questions, one of fairly non-transient importance and one
which I consider to be a bit transient, that I feel obligated to ask because
of communication with others.
The first is just clearing up final points about harvest for our friend Leo
Sprinkle. And I was wondering if there is a supervision over the harvest,
and if so, why this supervision is necessary, and how it works since an
entity’s harvestability is the violet ray? Is it necessary for entities to
supervise the harvest, or is it automatic? Could you answer this please?
R A I am Ra. In time of harvest there are always harvesters. The fruit is
formed as it will be, but there is some supervision necessary to ensure that
this bounty is placed as it should be, without the bruise or the blemish.
There are those of three levels watching over harvest.
The first level is planetary and that which may be called angelic. This type
of guardian includes the mind/body/spirit complex totality or higher self
of an entity and those inner plane entities which have been attracted to
this entity through its inner seeking.
The second class of those who ward this process are those of the
Confederation who have the honor/duty of standing in the small places at
the edge of the steps of light/love so that those entities being harvested
will not, no matter how confused or unable to make contact with their
higher self, stumble and fall away for any reason other than the strength
of the light. These Confederation entities catch those who stumble and
set them aright so that they may continue into the light.
The third group watching over this process is that group you call the
Guardians. This group is from the octave above our own and serves in
this manner as light-bringers. These Guardians provide the precise
emissions of light/love in exquisitely fastidious disseminations of 
402 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
discrimination so that the precise light/love vibration of each entity may
be ascertained.
Thus the harvest is automatic in that those harvested will respond
according to that which is unchangeable during harvest. That is the
violet-ray emanation. However, these helpers are around to ensure a
proper harvesting so that each entity may have the fullest opportunity to
express its violet-ray selfhood.
51.2 QUESTIONER Thank you. This next question I feel to be a transient type of
question; however, it has been asked me by one whom I have
communicated with who has been intensely involved in the UFO portion
of the phenomenon. If you deem it too transient or unimportant we’ll
skip it, but I have been asked how is it possible for the craft of, shall we
say, the fourth-density to get here in that it seems that, as you approach
the velocity of light, mass approaches infinite. We have talked about the
increase of spiritual mass, and it was just a question as to how this
transition from very distant planets is made in craft. And my question
would be why craft would be necessary at all? This is not an important
question.
RA I am Ra. You have asked several questions. We shall respond in turn.
Firstly, we agree that this material is transient.
Secondly, those, for the most part, coming from distant points, as you
term them, do not need craft as you know them. The query itself requires
understanding which you do not possess. We shall attempt to state what
may be stated.
Firstly, there are a few third-density entities who have learned how to use
craft to travel between star systems while experiencing the limitations you
now understand. However, such entities have learned to use hydrogen in
a way different from your understanding now. These entities still take
quite long durations of time, as you measure it, to move about. However,
these entities are able to use hypothermia to slow the physical and mental
complex processes in order to withstand the duration of flight. Those
such as are from Sirius are of this type.
There are two other types:
One is the type which, coming from fourth, fifth, or sixth density in your
own galaxy, has access to a type of energy system which uses the speed of 
SESSION 51 403
light as a slingshot, and thus arrives where it wishes without any
perceptible time elapsed, in your view.
The other type of experience is that of fourth, fifth, and sixth densities of
other galaxies, and some within your own galaxy, which have learned the
necessary disciplines of personality to view the universe as one being and,
therefore, are able to proceed from locus to locus by thought alone,
materializing the necessary craft, if you will, to enclose the light body of
the entity.
51.3 QUESTIONER I assume that that latter type is the type that we experience
with most of our landings from the Orion group. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. The Orion group is mixed between the penultimate and the
latter groups.
51.4 QUESTIONER Why is a vehicle necessary for this transition? When you, as
Ra, went to Egypt earlier you used bell-shaped craft, but you did this by
thought. Can you tell me why you used a vehicle rather than just
materializing the body?
R A I am Ra. The vehicle, or craft, is that thought-form upon which our
concentration may function as motivator. We would not choose to use
our mind/body/spirit complexes as the focus for such a working.
51.5 QUESTIONER Thank you. I would like to make a statement. I’m sure I’m
somewhat off with this. It’s a very difficult question to ask for me,
because I don’t really know what I’m talking about. But it seems to me—
and you can tell me where I am going wrong with this statement—that
we have seven bodies, each corresponding to one of the seven colors of
the spectrum. And that energy that creates these seven bodies is a
universal type of energy that streams into our planetary environment and
comes in through seven energy centers that we have called chakras to
develop and perfect these bodies.
And this is— Each of these bodies is in somehow related to the mental
configuration that we have, and the perfection of each of these bodies and
the total instreaming, you might say, of this energy is a function of this
mental configuration. And through this mental configuration we may
block, to some extent, the instreamings of energy that create each of these
seven bodies. Could you comment on where I am wrong and correct me
in this that I have stated?
404 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. Your statement is substantially correct. To use the term
“mental configuration” is to oversimplify the manners of blockage of
instreaming which occur in your density. The mind complex has a
relationship to the spirit and body complexes which is not fixed. Thus
blockages may occur betwixt spirit and mind, or body and mind, upon
many different levels. We reiterate that each energy center has seven subcolors, let us say for convenience. Thus spiritual/mental blockages
combined with mental/bodily blockages may affect each of the energy
centers in several differing ways. Thus you may see the subtle nature of
the balancing and evolutionary process.
51.6 QUESTIONER I am unsure as to whether this will provide an avenue of
questioning or not that will be fruitful. However, I will ask this question
since it seemed to me that there is possibly a connection here.
On the back of the book, Secrets of The Great Pyramid, there are several
reproductions of Egyptian drawings or works, some showing birds flying
over horizontal entities. Could you tell me what this is and if it has any
relationship to Ra?
R A I am Ra. These drawings of which you speak are some of many which
distort the teaching of our perception of death as the gateway to further
experience. The distortions concern those considerations of specific
nature as to processes of the so-called “dead” mind/body/spirit complex.
This may be termed, in your philosophy, the distortion of Gnosticism:
that is, the belief that one may achieve knowledge and a proper position
by means of carefully perceived and accentuated movements, concepts,
and symbols.
In fact, the process of the physical death is as we have described before:
one in which there is aid available, and the only need at death is the
releasing of that entity from its body by those around it and the praising
of the process by those who grieve. By these means may the
mind/body/spirit which has experienced physical death be aided, not by
the various perceptions of careful and repeated rituals.
51.7 QUESTIONER You spoke at an earlier time of rotational speeds of energy
centers. Am I correct in assuming that this is a function of the blockage of
the energy center, and the less blocked it is, the higher the speed of
rotation, then, indicating greater energy instreaming?
R A I am Ra. You are partially correct. In the first three energy centers, a 
SESSION 51 405
full unblocking of this energy will create speeds of rotation. As the entity
develops the higher energy centers, however, these centers will then begin
to express their nature by forming crystal structures. This is the higher, or
more balanced, form of activation of energy centers as the space/time
nature of this energy is transmuted to the time/space nature of
regularization and balancing.
51.8 QUESTIONER What do you mean by crystal structures?
R A I am Ra. Each of the energy centers of the physical complex may be
seen to have a distinctive crystalline structure in the more developed
entity. Each will be somewhat different, just as in your world no two
snowflakes are alike. However, each is regular.
The red energy center often is in the shape of the spoked wheel.
The orange energy center in the flower shape containing three petals.
The yellow center again in a rounded shape, many faceted, as a star.
The green energy center sometimes called the lotus-shape, the number of
points of crystalline structure dependent upon the strength of this center.
The blue energy center capable of having perhaps one hundred facets and
capable of great flashing brilliance.
The indigo center a more quiet center which has the basic triangular, or
three-petaled, shape in many, although some adepts who have balanced
the lower energies may create more faceted forms.
The violet energy center is the least variable and is sometimes described in
your philosophy as thousand-petaled, as it is the sum of the
mind/body/spirit complex distortion totality.
51.9 QUESTIONER Right now I feel a feeling at the indigo center. If this center
were totally activated and not blocked at all, would I then feel nothing
there?
R A I am Ra. This query, if answered, would infringe upon the Law of
Confusion.
51.10 QUESTIONER Immediately after the death of the physical body, you have
stated that the—I believe I’m correct in saying that—primary activated 
406 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
body is the indigo, and you stated that it is the form-maker. Why is this
so? Can you answer that?
R A I am Ra. This will be the last full query of this session of working.
The indigo body may be seen to be an analog for intelligent energy. It is,
in microcosm, the Logos. The intelligent energy of the mind/body/spirit
complex totality draws its existence from intelligent infinity, or the
Creator. This Creator is to be understood, both in macrocosm and
microcosm, to have, as we have said, two natures: the unpotentiated
infinity which is intelligent—this is all that there is.1
Free Will has potentiated both the Creator of us all and our selves as coCreators with intelligent infinity which has will. This will may be drawn
upon by the indigo, or form-making, body, and its wisdom used to then
choose the appropriate locus and type of experience which this coCreator, or sub-sub-Logos you call so carelessly a person, will take.
I am Ra. This is the time for any brief queries.
51.11 QUESTIONER Is there anything that we can do to make the instrument
more comfortable or improve the contact?
R A I am Ra. All is well. You are conscientious. I leave you now, my
brothers, in the love and in the light of the One Infinite Creator. Go
forth, then, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One Infinite
Creator. Adonai.
 1 Ra says, “This Creator is to be understood, both in macrocosm and microcosm, to
have, as we have said, two natures,” indicating that a list of two items (presumably
the potential and kinetic aspects of intelligent infinity) will follow. However, it is
unclear whether the second paragraph constitutes the second item in that list.
SESSION 52
MAY 19, 1981
52.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
52.1 QUESTIONER In the previous session you stated that “the other type of
experience is the fourth, fifth, and sixth densities of other galaxies, and
some within your own galaxy, which have learned necessary disciplines of
personality to view the universe as one being, and, therefore, are able to
proceed from locus to locus by thought alone, materializing the necessary
craft.”
I would like to ask you when you say that “fourth, fifth, and sixth
densities of other galaxies, and some within your own galaxy,” are you
stating here that more of the entities in other galaxies have developed the
abilities of personality than have in this galaxy for this type of, shall I say,
travel? I am using the term galaxy with respect to the lenticular shape of
250 billion stars.
R A I am Ra. We have once again used a meaning for this term, galaxy,
that does not lie within your vocabulary at this time, if you will call it so.
We referred to your star system.
It is incorrect to assume that other star systems are more able to
manipulate the dimensions than your own. It is merely that there are
many other systems besides your own.
52.2 QUESTIONER Thank you. I think that possibly I am on an important point
here because it seems to me that the great work in evolution is the
discipline of personality, and it seems that we have two types of moving
around the universe, one stemming from disciplines of personality, and
the other stemming from what you call the slingshot effect. I won’t even
get into the sub-light speeds because I don’t consider that too important.
And I only consider this material important with respect to the fact that
we are investigating discipline of the personality.
Does the use of the slingshot effect for travel—is that a what you might
call an intellectual, or a left brain, type of involvement of understanding
rather than a right brain type?
408 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. Your perception on this point is extensive. You penetrate the
outer teaching. We prefer not to utilize the terminology of right and left
brain due to the inaccuracies of this terminology. Some functions are
repetitive or redundant in both lobes, and further, to some entities the
functions of the right and left are reversed. However, the heart of the
query is worth some consideration.
The technology of which you, as a social complex, are so enamored at this
time is but the birthing of the manipulation of the intelligent energy of
the sub-Logos which, when carried much further, may evolve into
technology capable of using the gravitic effects of which we spoke. We
note that this term is not accurate, but there is no closer term.
Therefore, the use of technology to manipulate that outside the self is far,
far less of an aid to personal evolution than the disciplines of the
mind/body/spirit complex resulting in the whole knowledge of the self in
the microcosm and macrocosm.
To the disciplined entity, all things are open and free. The discipline
which opens the universes opens also the gateways to evolution. The
difference is that of choosing either to hitchhike to a place where beauty
may be seen, or to walk, step by step, independent and free in this
independence to praise the strength to walk, and the opportunity for the
awareness of beauty.
The hitchhiker, instead, is distracted by conversation and the vagaries of
the road and, dependent upon the whims of others, is concerned to make
the appointment in time. The hitchhiker sees the same beauty, but has
not prepared itself for the establishment, in the roots of mind, of the
experience.
52.3 QUESTIONER I would ask this question in order to understand the mental
disciplines and how they evolve. Do fourth-, fifth-, and sixth-density
positive, or service-to-others orientated, social memory complexes use
both the slingshot and the personality discipline type of effect for travel,
or do they use only one?
R A I am Ra. The positively oriented social memory complex will be
attempting to learn the disciplines of mind, body, and spirit. However,
there are some which, having the technology available to use intelligent
energy forces to accomplish travel, do so while learning the more
appropriate disciplines.
SESSION 52 409
52.4 QUESTIONER Then I am assuming in the positively oriented social memory
complexes that a much higher percentage of them use the personality
disciplines for this travel. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. As positive fifth density moves into sixth
there are virtually no entities which any longer use outer technology for
travel or communication.
52.5 QUESTIONER Could you give me the same information on the negatively
oriented social memory complexes as to the ratios, how they use the
slingshot or other effect, personality disciplines?
R A I am Ra. The fourth-density negative uses the slingshot gravitic light
effect, perhaps 80% of its membership being unable to master the
disciplines necessary for alternate methods of travel. In fifth-density
negative approximately 50% at some point gain the necessary discipline
to use thought to accomplish travel. As the sixth density approaches, the
negative orientation is thrown into confusion and little travel is
attempted. What travel is done is perhaps 73% of light/thought.
52.6 QUESTIONER Is there any difference then, at, say, close to the end of fifth
density in the disciplines of personality required for this travel between
positive and negative orientation, higher fifth density?
R A I am Ra. There are patent differences between the polarities, but no
difference whatsoever in the completion of the knowledge of the self
necessary to accomplish this discipline.
52.7 QUESTIONER Am I correct, then, in assuming that discipline of the
personality, knowledge of self, and control, shall I say, in strengthening of
the will would be what any fifth-density entity would see as those things
of importance?
R A I am Ra. In actuality these things are of importance in third through
early seventh densities. The only correction in nuance that we would
make is your use of the word, control. It is paramount that it be
understood that it is not desirable or helpful to the growth of the
understanding, may we say, of an entity by itself to control thought
processes or impulses except where they may result in actions not
consonant with the Law of One. 
410 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Control may seem to be a shortcut to discipline, peace, and illumination.
However, this very control potentiates and necessitates the further
incarnative experience in order to balance this control, or repression, of
that self which is perfect.
Instead, we appreciate and recommend the use of your second verb in
regard to the use of the will. Acceptance of self, forgiveness of self, and the
direction of the will: this is the path towards the disciplined personality.
Your faculty of will is that which is powerful within you as co-Creator.
You cannot ascribe to this faculty too much importance. Thus it must be
carefully used and directed in service to others for those upon the
positively oriented path.
There is great danger in the use of the will as the personality becomes
stronger, for it may be used even subconsciously in ways reducing the
polarity of the entity.
52.8 QUESTIONER I sense, possibly, a connection between what you just said
and why so many wanderers have selected harvest time on this planet to
incarnate. Am I correct? This is a vague notion.
R A I am Ra. It is correct that, in the chance to remember that which has
been lost in the forgetting, there is a nimiety of opportunity for positive
polarization.1 We believe this is the specific thrust of your query. Please
ask further if it is not.
52.9 QUESTIONER Well, I would just include the question as to why time of
harvest is selected by so many wanderers as time for incarnation?
R A I am Ra. There are several reasons for incarnation during harvest.
They may be divided by the terms self and other-self.
The overriding reason for the offering of these Brothers and Sisters of
Sorrow in incarnative states is the possibility of aiding other-selves by the
lightening of the planetary-consciousness distortions and the probability
of offering catalyst to other-selves which will increase the harvest.
There are two other reasons for choosing this service which have to do
with the self.
 1 In this context, nimiety may be defined as “an overabundance or redundancy.”
SESSION 52 411
The wanderer, if it remembers and dedicates itself to service, will polarize
much more rapidly than is possible in the far more etiolated realms of
higher-density catalyst. 2
The final reason is within the mind/body/spirit totality or the social
memory complex totality which may judge that an entity, or members of
a societal entity, can make use of third-density catalyst to recapitulate a
learning/teaching which is adjudged to be less than perfectly balanced.
This especially applies to those entering into and proceeding through
sixth density wherein the balance between compassion and wisdom is
perfected.
52.10 QUESTIONER Thank you. Just as something that I am a little inquisitive
about, not much importance, but I’d like to make a statement I
intuitively see, which may be wrong.
You were speaking of the slingshot effect, and that term has puzzled me.
The only thing I can see is that you must put energy into the craft until it
approaches the velocity of light, and this, of course, requires more and
more and more energy. The time dilation occurs, and it seems to me that
it would be possible to, by moving at 90° to the direction of travel,
somehow change this stored energy in its application of direction, or
sense, so that you move out of space/time into time/space with a 90°
deflection. Then the energy would be taken out in time/space, and you
would re-enter space/time at the end of this energy reversal. Am I in any
way correct on this?
R A I am Ra. You are quite correct as far as your language may take you
and, due to your training, more able than we to express the concept. Our
only correction, if you will, would be to suggest that the 90° of which you
speak are an angle which may best be understood as a portion of a
tesseract.3
52.11 QUESTIONER Thank you. Just a little point that was bothering me of no
real importance.
 2 In this context, etiolated may be defined as “weakened; no longer at full strength;
made pale or thin.”
3 In speculative mathematics a tesseract is the fourth-dimensional analog to the
cube. A tesseract is to a cube as a cube is to a square.
412 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Well, is there, then—from the point of view of an individual who wishes
to follow the service-to-others path from our present position in third
density—is there anything of importance other than disciplines of
personality, knowledge of self, and strengthening of will?
R A I am Ra. This is technique. This is not the heart. Let us examine the
heart of evolution.
Let us remember that we are all one. This is the great learning/teaching.
In this unity lies love. This is a great learn/teaching. In this unity lies
light. This is the fundamental teaching of all planes of existence in
materialization. Unity, love, light, and joy: this is the heart of evolution of
the spirit.
The second-ranking lessons are learn/taught in meditation and in service.
At some point the mind/body/spirit complex is so smoothly activated and
balanced by these central thoughts or distortions that the techniques you
have mentioned become quite significant. However, the universe, its
mystery unbroken, is one. Always begin and end in the Creator, not in
technique.
52.12 QUESTIONER Thank you. In mentioning, in the previous session, the
harvest, you mentioned the light-bringers from the octave. Am I to
understand that those who provide the light for the gradation of
graduation are of an octave above the one we experience? Could you tell
me more about these light-bringers, who they are, etc.?
R A I am Ra. This will be the last full query of this working.
This octave density of which we have spoken is both omega and alpha,
the spiritual mass of the infinite universes becoming one Central Sun, or
Creator, once again. Then is born a new universe, a new infinity, a new
Logos which incorporates all that the Creator has experienced of Itself. In
this new octave there are also those who wander. We know very little
across the boundary of octave except that these beings come to aid our
octave in its Logos completion.
Is there any brief query which you have at this time?
52.13 QUESTIONER Only is there anything that we can do to make the
instrument more comfortable or to improve the contact?
SESSION 52 413
R A I am Ra. This instrument has some distortion in the area of the lungs
which has been well compensated for by the position of the physical
complex.
All is well.
We leave you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and in the peace of
the One Infinite Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 53
MAY 25, 1981
53.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
53.1 QUESTIONER I would first like to know the instrument’s condition and ask
two questions for her. She would like to know if she can do one exercise
of one hour a day, and is the pain she feels prior to a session due to an
Orion attack?
R A I am Ra. The instrument’s condition is as previously stated.
In answer to the question of exercise, now that the intensive period is
over, this instrument may, if it chooses, exercise one period rather than
two. In scanning this instrument’s physical-complex distortions we find
the current period of exercise at the limit of this instrument’s strength.
This is well in the long run due to a cumulative building up of the vital
energies. In the short run it is wearying to this entity. Thus we suggest the
entity be aware of our previous admonitions regarding other aids to
appropriate bodily distortions.
In answer to the second query, we may say that the physical complex
difficulties prior to contact with our social memory complex are due to
the action of the subconscious will of the instrument. This will is
extremely strong and requires the mind/body/spirit complex to reserve all
available physical and vital energies for the contact. Thus the discomforts
are experienced due to the dramatic distortion towards physical weakness
while this energy is diverted. The entity is, it may be noted, also under
psychic attack, and this intensifies pre-existing conditions and is
responsible for the cramping and the dizziness as well as mind-complex
distortions.
53.2 QUESTIONER Thank you. I would like to know if [name] may attend one
of these sessions in the very near future?
R A I am Ra. The mind/body/spirit complex, [name], belongs with this
group in the spirit and is welcome. You may request that special
meditative periods be set aside until the entity sits with this working. We 
SESSION 53 415
might suggest that a photograph of the one known as James Allen1 be sent
to this entity with his writing upon it indicating love and light. This held
while meditating will bring the entity into peaceful harmony with each of
you so that there be no extraneous waste of energy while greetings are
exchanged between two entities, both of whom have a distortion towards
solitude and shyness, as you would call it. The same might be done with a
photograph of the entity, [name], for the one known as James Allen.
53.3 QUESTIONER Thank you. During my trip to Laramie certain things
became apparent to me with respect to disseminating the first book
of The Law of One to those who have had experiences with UFOs and
other wanderers, and I will have to ask some questions now that I may
have to include in Book I to eliminate a misunderstanding that I am
perceiving as a possibility in Book I.2 Therefore, these questions, although
for the most part transient, are aimed at eliminating certain distortions of
understanding with respect to the material in Book I. I hope that I am
making a correct approach here. You may not be able to answer some,
but that’s all right. We’ll just go on to some others then if you can’t
answer the ones I ask.
First I will ask if you could tell me the affiliation of the entities that
contacted Betty Andreasson.
R A I am Ra. This query is marginal. We will make the concession
towards information with some loss of polarity due to free will being
abridged. We request that questions of this nature be kept to a minimum.
The entities in this and some other vividly remembered cases are those
who, feeling the need to plant Confederation imagery in such a way as
not to abrogate free will, use the symbols of death, resurrection, love, and
peace as a means of creating, upon the thought level, the time/space
illusion of a systematic train of events which give the message of love and
hope. This type of contact is chosen by careful consideration of
 1 Also known as Jim McCarty.
2 Don included the information from 53.6–17 in session 26 in the original
publications to give readers a broader view of “close encounters.” These two
sessions were originally divided between Books I and III, but as they are now
contained in the same volume, a footnote has simply been added to session 26
directing readers to this session in order to address Don’s concern about creating
a wrong impression regarding this phenomenon.
416 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Confederation members which are contacting an entity of like-home
vibration, if you will. This project then goes before the Council of Saturn
and, if approved, is completed. The characteristics of this type of contact
include the non-painful nature of thoughts experienced and the message
content which speaks not of doom, but of the new dawning age.
53.4 QUESTIONER It is not necessary that I include the information that you
just gave in the book to accomplish my purpose. In order to save your
polarity, shall I say, I can keep that as private material if you wish. Do
you wish for me to keep it unpublished?
R A I am Ra. That which we offer you is freely given and subject only to
your discretion.
53.5 QUESTIONER I thought you would say that. In that case can you tell me
anything of the “blue book” mentioned by Betty Andreasson in that case?
R A I am Ra. No.
53.6 QUESTIONER Thank you. Can you tell me of various techniques used by
the service-to-others, or positively oriented, Confederation contacts with
the people of this planet, the various forms of, and techniques of, them
making contact?
R A I am Ra. We could.
53.7 QUESTIONER Would you do this please?
R A I am Ra. The most efficient mode of contact is that which you
experience at this space/time. The infringement upon free will is greatly
undesired. Therefore, those entities which are wanderers upon your plane
of illusion will be the only subjects for the thought projections which
make up the so-called “close encounters” and meetings between positively
oriented social memory complexes and wanderers.
53.8 QUESTIONER Could you give me an example of one of these meetings
between a wanderer and a social memory complex as to what the
wanderer would experience?
R A I am Ra. One such example of which you are familiar is that of the
one known as Morris.3 In this case the previous contact which other
 3 This refers to Case #1 in Secrets of the UFO, by Don Elkins with Carla L. Rueckert,
Louisville, KY., L/L Research, 1976, p. 10–11.
SESSION 53 417
entities in this entity’s circle of friends experienced was negatively
oriented. However, you will recall that the entity, Morris, was impervious
to this contact and could not see, with the physical optical apparatus, this
contact.
However, the inner voice alerted the one known as Morris to go by itself
to another place, and there an entity, with the thought-form shape and
appearance of the other contact, appeared and gazed at this entity, thus
awakening in it the desire to seek the truth of this occurrence and of the
experiences of its incarnation in general.
The feeling of being awakened or activated is the goal of this type of
contact. The duration and imagery used varies depending upon the
subconscious expectations of the wanderer which is experiencing this
opportunity for activation.
53.9 QUESTIONER In a “close encounter” by a Confederation type of craft I
assume that this “close encounter” is with a thought-form type of craft.
Do wanderers within the past few years have “close encounters” with
landed thought-form type of craft?
R A I am Ra. This has occurred, although it is much less common than
the Orion type of so-called “close encounter.” We may note that in a
universe of unending unity the concept of a “close encounter” is
humorous, for are not all encounters of a nature of self with self?
Therefore, how can any encounter be less than very, very close?
53.10 QUEST IONER Well, talking about this type of encounter of self to self, do
any wanderers of a positive polarization ever encounter a so-called “close
encounter” with the Orion, or negatively oriented, polarization?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. The—
53.11 QUESTIO NER [Interrupting] Why does this occur?
R A I am Ra. When it occurs it is quite rare and occurs either due to the
Orion entities’ lack of perception of the depth of positivity to be
encountered or due to the Orion entities’ desire to, shall we say, attempt
to remove this positivity from this plane of existence. Orion tactics
normally are those which choose the simple distortions of mind which
indicate less mental and spiritual complex activity.
418 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
53.12 QUESTIONER I have become aware of a very large variation in contact with
individuals. The Confederation, I am assuming, uses a form of contact to
awaken, as you say, wanderers, and could you give me general examples of
the methods used by the Confederation to awaken, or partially awaken,
the wanderers they are contacting?
R A I am Ra. The methods used to awaken wanderers are varied. The
center of each approach is the entrance into the conscious and
subconscious in such a way as to avoid causing fear and to maximize the
potential for an understandable subjective experience which has meaning
for the entity. Many such occur in sleep, others in the midst of many
activities during the waking hours. The approach is flexible and does not
necessarily include the “close encounter” syndrome as you are aware.
53.13 QUESTIONER What about the physical examination syndrome. How does
that relate to wanderers and to Confederation and Orion contacts?
R A I am Ra. The subconscious expectations of entities cause the nature
and detail of thought-form experience offered by Confederation thoughtform entities. Thus if a wanderer expects a physical examination, it will,
perforce, be experienced with as little distortion towards alarm or
discomfort as is allowable by the nature of the expectations of the
subconscious distortions of the wanderer.
53.14 QUESTIONER Well, are both those who are taken on Confederation and
Orion craft then experiencing a seeming physical examination?
R A I am Ra. Your query indicates incorrect thinking. The Orion group
uses the physical examination as a means of terrifying the individual and
causing it to feel the feelings of an advanced second-density being such as
a laboratory animal. The sexual experiences of some are a sub-type of this
experience. The intent is to demonstrate the control of the Orion entities
over the Terran inhabitant.
The thought-form experiences are subjective and, for the most part, do
not occur in this density.
53.15 QUESTIONER Then both Confederation and Orion contacts are being
made, and “close encounters” are of a dual nature as I understand it. They
can either be of the Confederation or Orion type of contact. Is this
correct?
SESSION 53 419
R A I am Ra. This is correct, although the preponderance of contacts is
Orion-oriented.
53.16 QUESTIONER Well, we have a large spectrum of entities on Earth with
respect to harvestability, both positively oriented and negatively oriented.
Would the Orion target in on the ends of this spectrum, both positive
and negatively oriented, for contact . . . for Earth entities, I mean?
R A I am Ra. This query is somewhat difficult to accurately answer.
However, we shall attempt to do so.
The most typical approach of Orion entities is to choose what you might
call the weaker-minded entity that it might suggest a greater amount of
Orion philosophy to be disseminated.
Some few Orion entities are called by more highly polarized negative
entities of your space/time nexus. In this case they share information just
as we are now doing. However, this is a risk for the Orion entities due to
the frequency with which the harvestable negative planetary entities then
attempt to bid and order the Orion contact, just as these entities bid
planetary negative contacts. The resulting struggle for mastery, if lost, is
damaging to the polarity of the Orion group.
Similarly, a mistaken Orion contact with highly polarized positive entities
can wreak havoc with Orion troops unless these Crusaders are able to
depolarize the entity mistakenly contacted. This occurrence is almost
unheard of. Therefore, the Orion group prefers to make physical contact
only with the weaker-minded entity.
53.17 QUESTIONER Then, in general, I could say that if an individual has a “close
encounter” with a UFO or any other type of experience that seems to be
UFO-related, he must look to the heart of the encounter and the effect
upon him to determine whether it was Orion or Confederation contact.
Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. If there is fear and doom, the contact was
quite likely of a negative nature. If the result is hope, friendly feelings,
and the awakening of a positive feeling of purposeful service to others, the
marks of Confederation contact are evident.
53.18 QUESTIONER Thank you. I did not wish to create the wrong impression
with the material that we were including in Book I, and find it necessary 
420 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
to add some of this material. I know that it’s transient, but it, I believe, is
necessary for a full understanding or, shall I say, a correct approach to the
material.
I’ll ask a few questions here. If you do not care to answer them we’ll skip
them. I would like to ask, however, if you could tell me what, for the
most part—or the major portion of Confederation entities—what they
look like?
R A I am Ra. The fourth-density Confederation entity looks variously
depending upon the, shall we say, derivation of its physical vehicle.
53.19 QUESTIONER Do some of them look just like us? Could they pass for Earth
people?
R A I am Ra. Those of this nature are most often fifth-density.
53.20 QUESTIONER I assume that the same answer would apply to the Orion
group. Is this correct? As far as fourth and fifth density goes?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
53.21 QUESTIONER Can you tell me why [name] had so many silver flecks on
her?
R A I am Ra. This is infringement. No.
53.22 QUESTIONER Thank you. Could you tell me why I got sick during Carl
Raschke’s talk?
R A I am Ra. We scan your thoughts. They are correct and, therefore, we
do not infringe by confirming them. The space/time of your allotted
speaking was drawing near, and you came under Orion attack due to the
great desire of some positively oriented entities to become aware of the
Law of One. This may be expected, especially when you are not in a
group lending strength to each other.
53.23 QUESTIONER Thank you. Can you comment on my, and the instrument, if
she approves, so-called ball of lightning experience as a child?4
 4 Carla wrote: “When I was about one year old, I was sleeping in a cradle that was
placed at some distance from the open window. There was a storm going on. Mom
came in to close the window. She saw a ball of lightning come into the room and
circle around the cradle one-and-a-half times and then go out again. When I told 
SESSION 53 421
R A I am Ra. This will be the last query of this working.
You were being visited by your people to be wished well.
Is there any other query of a brief nature we may answer?
53.24 QUESTIONER No. I apologize for asking many transient questions during
this session. I hope that we did not cause any problem for you, especially
with respect to loss of polarity and that one question, but I felt it
necessary to include some of this material so that those wanderers and
others reading the first book of The Law of One would not get the wrong
impression with respect to their experiences in contacts. I am sorry for
any problems that I might have caused.
I will just ask if there is anything that we can do to improve the contact
or aid the instrument?
R A I am Ra. The instrument is well. Please guard your alignments
carefully. We leave you now, my friends, in the love and in the light of
the One Infinite Creator. Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and
the peace of the Infinite Creator. Adonai.

the story to Don, he said that the same thing had happened to him when he was an
infant. His mother didn’t elaborate on it, so that’s all he knew.”
SESSION 54
MAY 29, 1981
54.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
54.1 QUESTIONER First, I would like to ask of the instrument’s condition.
R A I am Ra. It is as previously stated.
54.2 QUESTIONER I have a question from Jim about an experience he had when
he first moved to his land in which he was told, “The key to your survival
comes indirect, through nervousness.” The entity was Angelica. Can you
give him information with respect to this?
R A I am Ra. Yes.
54.3 QUESTIONER Would you please do that?
R A I am Ra. As we have noted, each mind/body/spirit complex has
several guides available to it.1 The persona of two of these guides is the
polarity of male and female. The third is androgynous and represents a
more unified conceptualization faculty.
The guide speaking as sound vibration complex, Angelica, was the female
polarized persona. The message may not be fully explicated due to the
Law of Confusion. We may suggest that in order to progress, a state of
some dissatisfaction will be present, thus giving the entity the stimulus for
further seeking. This dissatisfaction, nervousness, or angst, if you will, is
not of itself useful. Thus its use is indirect.
54.4 QUESTIONER Thank you. I would like to trace the energy that I assume
comes from the Logos. I’m going to make a statement and let you correct
me on the statement and expand on my concept.
From the Logos comes all frequencies of radiation of light. These
frequencies of radiation make up all of the densities of experience that are
created by that Logos. I am assuming that the planetary system of our
sun, in all of its densities, is the total of the experience created by our sun
as a Logos. Is this correct?
 1 Noted in 12.14 and 18.8–9, and 36.10.
SESSION 54 423
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
54.5 QUESTIONER Now, I am assuming that the different frequencies are
separated, as we have said, into the seven colors; that each of these colors
may be the basic frequency for a sub-Logos of our sun-Logos; and that a
sub-Logos or, shall we say, an individual may activate any one of these
basic frequency or colors and use the body that is generated from the
activation of that frequency or color. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. If we grasp your query correctly, this is not correct in that
the sub-sub-Logos resides not in dimensionalities but only in co-Creators,
or mind/body/spirit complexes.
54.6 QUESTIONER What I meant was that a mind/body/spirit complex then can
have a body activated that is one of these seven rays. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct in the same sense as it is correct to state that
any one may play a complex instrument which develops an euphonious
harmonic vibration complex such as your piano, and can play this so well
that it might offer concerts to the public, as you would say.
In other words, although it is true that each true-color vehicle is available,
potentially, there is skill and discipline needed in order to avail the self of
the more advanced or lighter vehicles.
54.7 QUESTIONER Now, I have made these statements just to get to the basic
question I wish to ask. It is a difficult question to ask.
We have, coming from the sub-Logos we call our sun, intelligent energy,
which then forms—and we’ll take as an example a single sub-sub-Logos
which is a mind/body/spirit complex. This intelligent energy is somehow
modulated or distorted, so that it ends up as a mind/body/spirit complex
with certain distortions of personality that it is necessary for the
mind/body/spirit complex, or the mental portion of that complex, to
undistort in order to conform once more precisely with the original
intelligent energy.
First, I want to know if my statement on that is correct. And, secondly, I
want to know why this is the way that it is; if there is any answer other
than the first distortion of the Law of One for this?
R A I am Ra. This statement is substantially correct. If you will penetrate
the nature of the First Distortion in its application of self knowing self, 
424 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
you may begin to distinguish the hallmark of an infinite creator: variety.
Were there no potentials for misunderstanding and, therefore,
understanding, there would be no experience.
54.8 QUESTIONER OK. Once a mind/body/spirit complex becomes aware of
this process, it then decides that in order to have the abilities, the full
abilities of the creation and the Creator (of which it is a small part yet at
the same time, all of), in order to have the abilities that go with the entire
creation, it is necessary to reunite its thinking or reharmonize its thinking
with the Original Creative Thought in precise vibration, or frequency of
vibration I will say. In order to do this it is necessary to discipline the
personality so that it precisely conforms to the Original Thought, or
Original Vibration, and this is broken into seven areas of discipline, each
corresponding to one of the colors of the spectrum. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This statement, though correct, bears great potential for
being misunderstood. The precision with which each energy center
matches the Original Thought lies not in the systematic placement of
each energy nexus, but rather in the fluid and plastic placement of the
balanced blending of these energy centers in such a way that intelligent
energy is able to channel itself with minimal distortion.
The mind/body/spirit complex is not a machine. It is rather what you
might call a tone poem.
54.9 QUESTIONER Do all mind/body/spirit complexes in the entire creation
have the seven energy centers once they have reached full development or
development to the point where they can have seven energy centers?
R A I am Ra. These energy centers are in potential in macrocosm from the
beginning of creation by the Logos. Coming out of timelessness, all is
prepared. This is so of the infinite creation.
54.10 QUESTIONER Then I will assume that the Creator, in Its intelligent
appraisal of a way of knowing Itself, created the concept of the seven areas
of knowing. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is partially incorrect. The Logos creates Light. The
nature of this Light thus creates the nature of the catalytic and energetic
levels of experience in the creation. Thus it is that the highest of all
honor/duties, that given to those of the next octave, is the supervision of 
SESSION 54 425
Light in its manifestations during the experiential times, if you will, of
your cycles.
54.11 QUESTIONER I will make another statement. The mind/body/spirit
complex may choose, because of the First Distortion, a mental
configuration that is sufficiently displaced from the configuration of the
intelligent energy in a particular frequency or color of instreaming energy
so as to block a portion of instreaming energy in that particular frequency
or color. Is this statement correct?
R A I am Ra. Yes.
54.12 QUESTIONER This question may be no good, but I’ll ask it. Can you give
me an idea of the maximum percentage of this energy it’s possible to
block in any one color, or does that make any sense?
R A I am Ra. There may be, in an entity’s pattern of instreaming energy, a
complete blockage in any energy, or color, or combination of energies, or
colors.
54.13 QUESTIONER OK. Then I assume that the First Distortion is the, shall I
say, motivator or what allows this blockage. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. We wish no quibbling but prefer to avoid the use of terms
such as the verb, to allow. Free will does not allow, nor would
predetermination disallow, experiential distortions. Rather the Law of
Confusion offers a free reach for the energies of each mind/body/spirit
complex.
The verb, to allow, would be considered pejorative in that it suggests a
polarity between right and wrong, or allowed and not allowed.
This may seem a minuscule point. However, to our best way of thinking
it bears some weight.
54.14 QUESTIONER Thank you. It bears weight to my way of thinking also, and I
appreciate what you have told me.
Now, I would like to then consider the origin of catalyst in— First we
have the condition of mind/body/spirit complex which, as a function of
the First Distortion, has reached a condition of blockage, or partial
blockage, of one or more energy centers. I will assume that catalyst is 
426 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
necessary only if there is at least partial blockage of one energy center. Is
this correct?
R A I am Ra. No.
54.15 QUESTIONER Could you tell me why?
R A I am Ra. While it is a primary priority to activate or unblock each
energy center, it is also a primary priority at that point to begin to refine
the balances between the energies so that each tone of the chord of total
vibratory beingness resonates in clarity, tune, and harmony with each
other energy.
This balancing, tuning, and harmonizing of the self is most central to the
more advanced or adept mind/body/spirit complex. Each energy may be
activated without the beauty that is possible through the disciplines and
appreciations of personal energies, or what you might call the deeper
personality, or soul identity.
54.16 QUESTIONER Let me make an analogy that I have just thought of. A sevenstringed musical instrument may be played by deflecting each string a full
deflection and releasing it and getting a note. Or—once the strings are
capable of being deflected through their full deflection (producing a
note)—instead of producing the notes this way, taking the individual
creative personality and deflecting each the proper amount in proper
sequence to produce the music. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. In the balanced individual the energies lie
waiting for the hand of the Creator to pluck harmony.
54.17 QUESTIONER I would like then to trace the evolution of catalyst upon the
mind/body/spirit complexes and how it comes into use and is fully used
to create this tuning. I assume that the sub-Logos that formed our tiny
part of the creation, using the intelligence of the Logos of which it is a
part, provides, shall I say, the base catalyst that will act upon mind/body
complexes and mind/body/spirit complexes before they reach the state of
development where they can begin to program their own catalyst. Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. This is partially correct. The sub-Logos offers the catalyst at
the lower levels of energy, the first triad; these have to do with the survival
of the physical complex. The higher centers gain catalyst from the biases 
SESSION 54 427
of the mind/body/spirit complex itself in response to all random and
directed experiences.
Thus the less developed entity will perceive the catalyst about it in terms
of survival of the physical complex, with the distortions which are
preferred. The more conscious entity, being conscious of the catalytic
process, will begin to transform the catalyst offered by the sub-Logos into
catalyst which may act upon the higher energy nexi.
Thus the sub-Logos can offer only a basic skeleton, shall we say, of
catalyst. The muscles and flesh—having to do with the, shall we say,
survival of wisdom, love, compassion, and service—are brought about by
the action of the mind/body/spirit complex on basic catalyst so as to
create a more complex catalyst which may, in turn, be used to form
distortions within these higher energy centers.
The more advanced the entity, the more tenuous the connection between
the sub-Logos and the perceived catalyst until, finally, all catalyst is
chosen, generated, and manufactured by the self, for the self.
54.18 Q UESTIONER Which entities incarnate at this time on this planet would be
of that category, manufacturing all of their catalyst?
R A I am Ra. We find your query indeterminate but can respond that the
number of those which have mastered outer catalyst completely is quite
small.
Most of those harvestable at this space/time nexus have partial control
over the outer illusion and are using the outer catalyst to work upon some
bias which is not yet in balance.
54.19 QUESTIONER In the case of service-to-self polarization, what type of
catalyst would entities following this path program when they reach the
level of programming their own catalyst?
R A I am Ra. The negatively oriented entity will program for maximal
separation from, and control over, all those things and conscious entities
which it perceives as being other than the self.
54.20 QUESTIONER I meant— I understand how a positively oriented entity
would program catalyst such as that would result in physical pain if it . . .
I’m assuming that an entity could program something that would give it 
428 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
the experience of physical pain if it did not follow the path that it had
selected. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. Please restate query.
54.21 QUESTIONER A positively oriented entity may select a certain narrow path
of thinking and activities during an incarnation and program conditions
that would create physical pain if this path were not followed. Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. This is correct.
54.22 QUESTIONER Would a negatively oriented entity do anything like this?
Could you give me an example?
R A I am Ra. A negatively oriented individual mind/body/spirit complex
will ordinarily program for wealth, ease of existence, and the utmost
opportunity for power. Thus many negative entities burst with the
physical-complex distortion you call health.
However, a negatively oriented entity may choose a painful condition in
order to improve the distortion toward the so-called negative emotive
mentations such as anger, hatred, and frustration. Such an entity may use
an entire incarnative experience honing a blunt edge of hatred, or anger,
so that it may polarize more towards the negative, or separated, pole.
54.23 QUESTIONER Now, it seems that we have prior to incarnation, in any
incarnation, as an entity becomes more aware of the process of evolution
and has selected a path, whether it be positive or negative, at some point
the entity becomes aware of what it wants to do with respect to
unblocking and balancing energy centers. At that point it is able to
program for the life experience those catalytic experiences that will aid it
in its process of unblocking and balancing. Is that correct?
R A I am Ra. That is correct.
54.24 QUESTIONER The purpose then, seen from previous-to-incarnation, of
what we call the incarnate physical state seems to be wholly, or almost
wholly, that of experiencing at that point the programmed catalyst and
then evolving as a function of that catalyst. Is that correct?
R A I am Ra. We shall restate for clarity. The purpose of incarnative
existence is evolution of mind, body, and spirit. In order to do this it is
not strictly necessary to have catalyst. However, without catalyst the 
SESSION 54 429
desire to evolve and the faith in the process do not normally manifest, and
thus evolution occurs not.
Therefore, catalyst is programmed, and the program is designed for the
mind/body/spirit complex for its unique requirements. Thus it is
desirable that a mind/body/spirit complex be aware of and hearken to the
voice of its experiential catalyst, gleaning from it that which it incarnated
to glean.
54.25 QUESTIONER Then it seems that those on the positive path, as opposed to
those on the negative path, would have precisely the reciprocal objective
in the first three rays; red, orange, and yellow. Each path would be
attempting to utilize the rays in precisely opposite manners. Is this
correct?
R A I am Ra. It is partially, and even substantially, correct. There is an
energy in each of the centers needed to keep the mind/body/spirit
complex, which is the vehicle for experience, in correct conformation and
composition. Both negative and positive entities do well to reserve this
small portion of each center for the maintenance of the integrity of the
mind/body/spirit complex. After this point, however, it is correct that the
negative will use the three lower centers for separation from and control
over others—by sexual means, by personal assertion, and by action in
your societies.
Contrary-wise, the positively oriented entity will be transmuting strong
red-ray sexual energy into green-ray energy transfers and radiation in blue
and indigo, and will be similarly transmuting selfhood and place in
society into energy transfer situations in which the entity may merge with
and serve others and then, finally, radiate unto others without expecting
any transfer in return.
54.26 QUESTIONER Can you describe the energy that enters any of these energy
centers? Can you describe its path from its origin, its form, and its effect?
I don’t know if this is possible, but can you do that?
R A I am Ra. This is partially possible.
54.27 QUESTIONER Would you please do that?
430 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A The origin of all energy is the action of Free Will upon Love. The
nature of all energy is Light. The means of its ingress into the
mind/body/spirit complex is duple.
Firstly, there is the inner light which is Polaris of the self, the guiding star.
This is the birthright and true nature of all entities. This energy dwells
within.
The second point of ingress is the polar opposite of the North Star, shall
we say, and may be seen, if you wish to use the physical body as an analog
for the magnetic field, as coming through the feet from the earth and
through the lower point of the spine.
This point of ingress of the universal light energy is undifferentiated until
it begins its filtering process through the energy centers. The
requirements of each center, and the efficiency with which the individual
has learned to tap into the inner light, determine the nature of the use
made by the entity of these instreamings.
54.28 QUESTIONER Does experiential catalyst follow the same path? This may be
a dumb question.
R A I am Ra. This is not a pointless question, for catalyst and the
requirements, or distortions, of the energy centers are two concepts linked
as tightly as two strands of rope.
54.29 QUESTIONER Then, you had mentioned in an earlier session that the
experiential catalyst was first experienced by the south pole and appraised
with its respect to survival, etc. That’s why I asked the question, and I—
Can you expand on that concept?
R A I am Ra. We have addressed the filtering process by which in-coming
energies are pulled upwards according to the distortions of each energy
center and the strength of will, or desire, emanating from the awareness of
inner light. If we may be more specific, please query with specificity.2
54.30 QUESTIONER I’ll make this statement which may be somewhat distorted
and let you correct it. We have, coming through the feet and base of the
spine, the total energy that the mind/body/spirit complex will receive in
the way of what we call light. Each energy center as it is met filters out
and uses a portion of this energy, red through violet. Is this correct?
 2 Addressed in 49.5–6 and 54.27.
SESSION 54 431
R A I am Ra. This is largely correct. The exceptions are as follows: The
energy ingress ends with indigo. The violet ray is a thermometer, or
indicator, of the whole.
54.31 QUESTIONER As this energy is absorbed by the energy centers, at some
point it is not only absorbed into the being but radiates through the
energy center outwardly. I believe this begins with the blue center and . . .
and also occurs with the indigo and violet? Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. Firstly, we would state that we had not finished answering
the previous query and may thus answer both in part by stating that in
the fully activated entity, only that small portion of instreaming light
needed to tune the energy center is used, the great remainder being free to
be channeled and attracted upwards.
To answer your second question more fully we may say that it is correct
that radiation without the necessity of response begins with blue ray;
although the green ray, being the great transitional ray, must be given all
careful consideration, for until transfers of energy of all types has been
experienced and mastered to a great extent, there will be blockages in the
blue and indigo radiations.
Again, the violet emanation is, in this context, a resource from which,
through indigo, intelligent infinity may be contacted. The radiation
thereof will not be violet ray but rather green, blue, or indigo depending
upon the nature of the type of intelligence which infinity has brought
through into discernible energy.
The green-ray type of radiation in this case is the healing, the blue-ray the
communication and inspiration, the indigo that energy of the adept
which has its place in faith.
54.32 QUESTIONER What if a mind/body/spirit complex feels a feeling in
meditation at the indigo center, what is he feeling?
R A I am Ra. This will be the last full query of this working.
One who feels this activation is one experiencing instreamings at that
energy center to be used either for the unblocking of this center, for its
tuning to match the harmonics of its other energy centers, or to activate
the gateway to intelligent infinity.
432 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
We cannot be specific, for each of these three workings is experienced by
the entity which feels this physical-complex distortion.
Is there a brief query before we leave this instrument?
54.33 QUESTIONER I just would ask if there is anything that we can do to make
the instrument more comfortable or improve the contact?
R A I am Ra. Please be aware of the need for the support of the
instrument’s neck. All is well.
I leave you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One
Infinite Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 55
JUNE 5, 1981
55.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. I communicate now.
55.1 QUESTIONER I would first like to ask as to the condition of the instrument,
please?
R A I am Ra. This instrument is experiencing physical distortions toward
weakness of the bodily complex occurring due to psychic attack. This
instrument’s vital energies have not been affected, however, due to the aid
of those present in healing work. This instrument will apparently be
subject to such weakness distortions due to incarnative processes which
predispose the body complex towards weakness distortions.
55.2 QUESTIONER Is there any specific thing that we can do that you have
already told us? Or otherwise to alleviate this psychic attack or to help the
instrument the most?
R A I am Ra. We scan this instrument and find its distortion towards
appreciation of each entity and each entity’s caring, as you may call it.
This atmosphere, shall we say, offers the greatest contrast to the
discomfort of such psychic attacks, being the reciprocal, that is, the
atmosphere of psychic support.
This each of you do as a subconscious function of true attitudinal,
mental, emotional, and spiritual distortions towards this instrument.
There is no magic greater than honest distortion toward love.
55.3 QUESTIONER Thank you. I want to ask a couple questions about previous
material that I didn’t understand. I’m hoping that this will clear up my
understanding, somewhat, with respect to the mental configurations with
which we have been dealing.
In the session before last you stated, “However, this is a risk for the Orion
entities due to the frequency with which the harvestable negative
planetary entities then attempt to bid, or order, the Orion contact, just as
these entities bid planetary negative contacts.” Can you explain the
mechanisms that affect polarization in consciousness with respect to this
statement?
434 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. The negative polarization is greatly aided by the subjugation
or enslavement of other-selves. The potential between two negatively
polarized entities is such that the entity which enslaves the other or bids
the other gains in negative polarity.
The entity so bidden or enslaved, in serving an other-self, will necessarily
lose negative polarity, although it will gain in desire for further negative
polarization. This desire will then tend to create opportunities to regain
negative polarity.
55.4 QUESTIONER Am I to understand then—just the fact that the third-density
entity on this planet . . . just the fact that he calls or bids an Orion
Crusader is a polarizing type of action that affects both entities?
R A I am Ra. This is incorrect. The calling mechanism is not congruent in
the slightest degree with the bidding mechanism. In the calling, the entity
which calls is a suppliant neophyte asking for aid in negative
understanding, if you may excuse this misnomer. The Orion response
increases its negative polarity as it is disseminating the negative
philosophy, thereby enslaving, or bidding, the entity calling.
There are instances, however, when the contact becomes a contest which
is prototypical of negativity. In this contest, the caller will attempt not to
ask for aid but to demand results. Since the third-density, negatively
oriented, harvestable entity has at its disposal an incarnative experiential
nexus, and since Orion Crusaders are, in a great extent, bound by the
First Distortion in order to progress, the Orion entity is vulnerable to
such bidding, if properly done.
In this case, the third-density entity becomes master, and the Orion
Crusader becomes entrapped and can be bid. This is rare. However, when
it has occurred the Orion entity or social memory complex involved has
experienced loss of negative polarity in proportion to the strength of the
bidding third-density entity.
55.5 QUESTIONER You mentioned that this will work when the bidding is
properly done. What did you mean by “when the bidding is properly
done?”
R A I am Ra. To properly bid is to be properly negative. The percentage of
thought and behavior involving service to self must approach 99% in 
SESSION 55 435
order for a third-density negative entity to be properly configured for
such a contest of bidding.
55.6 QUESTIONER What method of communication with the Orion entity
would a negative bidder of this type use?
R A I am Ra. The two most usual types of bidding are: One, the use of
perversions of sexual magic; two, the use of perversions of ritual magic. In
each case the key to success is the purity of the will of the bidder. The
concentration upon victory over the servant must be nearly perfect.
55.7 QUESTIONER Can you tell me, in the polarizations in consciousness, if
there is any analogy with respect to what you just said in this type of
contact with respect to what we are doing, right now, in communicating
with Ra?
R A I am Ra. There is no relationship between this type of contact and the
bidding process. This contact may be characterized as one typical of the
Brothers and Sisters of Sorrow wherein those receiving the contact have
attempted to prepare for such contact by sacrificing extraneous, selforiented distortions in order to be of service.
The Ra social memory complex offers itself also as a function of its desire
to serve. Both the caller and the contact are filled with gratitude at the
opportunity of serving others.
We may note that this in no way presupposes that either the callers or
those of our group in any way approach a perfection, or purity, such as
was described in the bidding process. The calling group may have many
distortions and be working with much catalyst, as may those of Ra. The
overriding desire to serve others, bonded with the unique harmonics of
this group’s vibratory complexes, gives us the opportunity to serve as one
channel for the One Infinite Creator.
Things come not to those positively oriented, but through such beings.
55.8 QUESTIONER Thank you. You stated at an earlier time “until transfers of
energy of all types have been experienced and mastered to a great extent,
there will be blockages in the blue and indigo radiations.” Could you
explain that more fully?
436 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
R A I am Ra. At this space/time we have not covered the appropriate
intermediate material. Please re-question at a more appropriate space/time
nexus.
55.9 QUESTIONER OK. I’m sort of hunting around here for an entry into some
information. I may not be looking in a productive area.
But you had stated that “we (that is, Ra) had been aided by shapes such as
the pyramid, so that we could aid your people with a shape such as the
pyramid.” These shapes have been mentioned many, many times, and
you have also stated that the shapes themselves aren’t of too much
consequence. I see a relation between these shapes and the energies that
we have been studying with respect to the body, and I would like to ask a
few questions on the pyramid to see if I might get an entry into some of
this understanding.
You stated, “You will find the intersection of the triangle which is at the
first level on each of the four sides forms a diamond in a plane which is
horizontal.” Can you tell me what you meant by the word, intersection?
R A I am Ra. Your mathematics and arithmetic have a paucity of
configurative descriptions which we might use. Without intending to be
obscure, we may note that the purpose of the shapes is to work with
time/space portions of the mind/body/spirit complex. Therefore, the
intersection is both space/time and time/space oriented and thus is
expressed in three dimensional geometry by two intersections which,
when projected in both time/space and space/time, form one point.
55.10 QUESTIONER I have calculated this point to be one-sixth of the height of
the triangle that forms the side of the pyramid. Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. Your calculations are substantially correct, and we are
pleased at your perspicacity.1
55.11 QUESTIONER This would indicate to me that in the Great Pyramid at Giza,
the Queen’s Chamber, as it is called, would be the chamber for initiation.
Is this correct?
R A I am Ra. Again, you penetrate the outer teaching.
 1 In this context, perspicacity may be defined as “acuteness of sight or
discernment.”
SESSION 55 437
The Queen’s Chamber would not be appropriate or useful for healing
work as that work involves the use of energy in a more synergic
configuration rather than the configuration of the centered being.2
55.12 QUESTIONER Then would the healing work be done in the King’s
Chamber?
R A I am Ra. This is correct. We may note that such terminology is not
our own.
55.13 QUESTIONER Yes, I understand that. It is just the common naming of the
two chambers of the Great Pyramid. I don’t know whether this line of
questioning is going to take me to a better understanding of the energies,
but until I have explored these concepts there is nothing much that I can
do but ask a few questions.
There is a chamber below the bottom level of the pyramid, down below
ground, that appears to be roughly in line with the King’s Chamber.
What is that chamber?
R A I am Ra. We may say that there is information to be gained from this
line of querying.
The chamber you request to be informed about is a resonating chamber.
The bottom of such a structure, in order to cause the appropriate
distortions for healing catalyst, shall be open.
55.14 QUESTIONER The book, Life Force in the Great Pyramid, they have related
the ankh shape with a resonance in the pyramid. Is this a correct analysis?
R A I am Ra. We have scanned your mind and find the phrase “working
with crayons.” This would be applicable. There is only one significance to
these shapes such as the crux ansata; that is the placing in coded form of
mathematical relationships.
55.15 QUESTIONER Is the 76° 18′ angle at the apex of the pyramid a critical
angle?
R A I am Ra. For the healing work intended, this angle is appropriate.
 2 In this context, synergic may be defined as “working together.”
438 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
55.16 QUESTIONER Why does the King’s Chamber have the various small
chambers above it?
R A I am Ra. This will be the last full query of this working.
We must address this query more generally in order to explicate your
specific question. The positioning of the entity to be healed is such that
the life energies, if you will, are in a position to be briefly interrupted, or
intersected, by light.
This light then may, by the catalyst of the healer with the crystal,
manipulate the aural forces, as you may call the various energy centers, in
such a way that if the entity to be healed wills it so, corrections may take
place. Then the entity is re-protected by its own, now less distorted,
energy field and is able to go its way.
The process by which this is done involves bringing the entity to be
healed to an equilibrium. This involves temperature, barometric pressure,
and the electrical charged atmosphere. The first two requirements are
controlled by the system of chimneys.
55.17 QUESTIONER Does this healing work by affecting the energy centers in
such a way that they are unblocked so as to perfect the seven bodies that
they generate and, therefore, bring the entity being healed into proper
balance?
R A I am Ra. This entity tires. We must answer in brief and state simply
that the distorted configuration of the energy centers is intended to be
temporarily interrupted, and the opportunity is then presented to the one
to be healed to grasp the baton, to take the balanced route, and to walk
thence with the distortions towards dis-ease of mind, body, and spirit
greatly lessened.
The catalytic effect of the charged atmosphere and the crystal directed by
the healer must be taken into consideration as integral portions of this
process, for the bringing back of the entity to a configuration of conscious
awareness would not be accomplished after the reorganization possibilities
are offered without the healer’s presence and directed will.
Are there any brief queries before we leave this instrument?
55.18 QUESTIONER Only is there anything we can do to make the instrument
more comfortable or improve the contact?
SESSION 55 439
R A I am Ra. All is well. You are conscientious. I now leave this working.
I am Ra. I leave you, my friends, in the love and in the light of the One
Infinite Creator. Go forth, then, rejoicing in the power and in the peace
of the One Infinite Creator. Adonai.
SESSION 56
JUNE 8, 1981
56.0 R A I am Ra. I greet you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. We communicate now.
56.1 QUESTIONER Would you first please give me an indication of the condition
of the instrument?
R A I am Ra. This instrument is severely distorted towards weakness of the
mental and physical complexes at this time, and is under psychic attack
due to this opportunity.
56.2 QUESTIONER Would it be better to discontinue the contact at this time?
R A I am Ra. This is entirely at your discretion. This instrument has some
energy transferred which is available. However, it is not great due to the
effects as previously stated.
We, if you desire to question us further at this working, will as always
attempt to safeguard this instrument. We feel that you are aware of the
parameters without further elaboration.
56.3 QUESTIONER In that case, I will ask how does the pyramid shape work?
R A I am Ra. We are assuming that you wish to know the principle of the
shapes, angles, and intersections of the pyramid at what you call Giza.
In reality, the pyramid shape does no work. It does not work. It is an
arrangement for the centralization, as well as the diffraction, of the
spiraling upward light energy as it is being used by the mind/body/spirit
complex.
The spiraling nature of light is such that the magnetic fields of an
individual are affected by spiraling energy. Certain shapes offer an echo
chamber, shall we say, or an intensifier for spiraling prana, as some have
called this all-present, primal distortion of the One Infinite Creator.
If the intent is to intensify the necessity for the entity’s own will to call
forth the inner light in order to match the intensification of the spiraling
light energy, the entity will be placed in what you have called the Queen’s 
SESSION 56 441
Chamber position in this particular shaped object. This is the initiatory
place and is the place of resurrection.
The off-set place, representing the spiral as it is in motion, is the
appropriate position for one to be healed; as in this position an entity’s
vibratory magnetic nexi are interrupted in their normal flux. Thus a
possibility/probability vortex ensues: a new beginning, shall we say, is
offered for the entity in which the entity may choose a less distorted,
weak, or blocked configuration of energy-center-magnetic distortions.
The function of the healer and crystal may not be over-emphasized, for
this power of interruption must needs be controlled, shall we say, with
incarnate intelligence; the intelligence being that of one which recognizes
energy patterns; which, without judging, recognizes blockage, weakness,
and other distortion; and which is capable of visualizing, through the
regularity of self and of crystal, the less distorted other-self to be healed.
Other shapes which are arched, groined, vaulted, conical, or as your
tepees are also shapes with this type of intensification of spiraling light.
Your caves, being rounded, are places of power due to this shaping.
It is to be noted that these shapes are dangerous. We are quite pleased to
have the opportunity to enlarge upon the subject of shapes such as the
pyramid, for we wish, as part of our honor/duty, to state that there are
many wrong uses for these curved shapes; for with improper placement,
improper intentions, or lack of the crystallized being functioning as
channel for healing, the sensitive entity will be distorted more rather than
less in some cases.
It is to be noted that your peoples build, for the most part, the cornered
or square habitations, for they do not concentrate power. It is further to
be noted that the spiritual seeker has, for many of your time periods of
years, sought the rounded, arched, and peaked forms as an expression of
the power of the Creator.1
56.4 QUESTIONER Is there an apex angle that is the angle for maximum
efficiency in the pyramid?
R A I am Ra. Again, to conserve this instrument’s energy, I am assuming
 1 To see a diagram of the operation of the three spirals in and through the pyramid,
see the Resource Series.
442 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
that you intend to indicate the most appropriate angle of apex for healing
work. If the shape is such that it is large enough to contain an individual
mind/body/spirit complex at the appropriate off-set position within it,
the 76° 18′, approximate, angle is useful and appropriate. If the position
varies, the angle may vary. Further, if the healer has the ability to perceive
distortions with enough discrimination, the position within any pyramid
shape may be moved about until results are effected.
However, we found this particular angle to be useful. Other social
memory complexes, or portions thereof, have determined different apex
angles for different uses, not having to do with healing but with learning.
When one works with the cone or, shall we say, the silo type of shape, the
energy for healing may be found to be in a general circular pattern unique
to each shape as a function of its particular height and width and, in the
cone shape, the angle of apex. In these cases there are no corner angles.
Thus the spiraling energy works in circular motion.
56.5 QUESTIONER I will make a statement that you can correct. I intuitively see
the spiraling energy of the Giza pyramid being spread out as it moves
through the so-called King’s Chamber and then refocusing in the socalled Queen’s Chamber. I am guessing that the spread of energy in the
so-called King’s Chamber is seen in the spectrum of colors, red through
violet, and that the energy centers of the entity to be healed should be
aligned with this spread of the spectrum so that the spectrum matches the
various energy centers. Can you correct this statement?
R A I am Ra. We can correct this statement.
56.6 QUESTIONER Would you please do that?
R A The spiraling energy is beginning to be diffused at the point where it
goes through the King’s Chamber position. However—although the
spirals continue to intersect, closing and opening in double spiral fashion
through the apex angle—the diffusion or strength of the spiraling
energies, red through violet color values, lessens if we speak of strength,
and gains if we speak of diffusion until at the peak of the pyramid you
have a very weak color resolution useful for healing purposes.
Thus the King’s Chamber position is chosen as the first spiral after the
centered beginning through the Queen’s Chamber position. You may
visualize the diffusion angle as the opposite of the pyramid angle, but the
angle being less wide than the apex angle of the pyramid, being 
SESSION 56 443
somewhere between 33 and 54°, depending upon the various rhythms of
the planet itself.
56.7 QUESTIONER Then I assume if I start my angle at the bottom of the
Queen’s Chamber, and make a 33 to 54° angle from that point, so that
half of that angle falls on the side of the centerline the King’s Chamber is
on, that will indicate the diffusion of the spectrum, starting from the
point at the bottom of the Queen’s Chamber; let’s say if we were using a
40° angle, we would have a 20° diffusion to the left of the centerline,
passing through the King’s Chamber. Is that correct?
R A I am Ra. This will be the last full question of this session.
It is correct that half of the aforementioned angle passes through the
King’s Chamber position. It is incorrect to assume that the Queen’s
Chamber is the foundation of the angle. The angle will begin somewhere
between the Queen’s Chamber position and thence downward towards
the level of the resonating chamber, off-set for the healing work.
This variation is dependent upon various magnetic fluxes of the planet.
The King’s Chamber position is designed to intersect the strongest spiral
of the energy flow regardless of where the angle begins. However, as it
passes through the Queen Chamber position this spiraling energy is
always centered and at its strongest point.
May we answer any brief queries at this time?
56.8 QUESTIONER I will just ask if there is anything that we can do to make the
instrument more comfortable or improve the contact?
R A I am Ra. All is well, my friends. It is well, however, to be conscious of
the limitations of this instrument. We feel the alignments are excellent at
this time.
I am Ra. I leave you in the love and in the light of the One Infinite
Creator. Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and in the peace of
the One Infinite Creator. Adonai.
[The remaining Ra contact sessions, #57–106, are contained in The Ra
Contact: Teaching the Law of One, Volume 2.]
PHOTO GALLERY
Unless otherwise noted, all of the photographs in the following gallery
were taken on June 9, 1982, before or after the Ra contact session. Of all
the photos taken that day, some were printed in the original Book I of
The Law of One. (aka The Ra Material.) The photos in this gallery include
those that were not printed in the original Law of One books.
Don and Ra discuss taking photographs of the Ra contact in the
following passages (contained in Volume 2 of The Ra Contact: Teaching
the Law of One):
88.10 QUESTIONER Our publisher requests pictures for the book, The Law
of One, that is going to press at this time. Would you comment on
the advisability, benefit or detriment, magical or otherwise, of us
using pictures of this particular setup, the instrument, and the
appurtenances in the book?
R A I am Ra. The practical advisability of such a project is completely
a product of your discrimination. There are magical considerations.
Firstly, if pictures be taken of a working, the visual image must needs
be that which is; that is, it is well for you to photograph only an
actual working and no sham nor substitution of any material. There
shall be no distortions which this group can avoid any more than we
would wish distortions in our words.
Secondly, it is inadvisable to photograph the instrument or any
portion of the working room while the instrument is in trance. This
is a narrow-band contact, and we wish to keep electrical and
electromagnetic energies constant when their presence is necessary,
and not present at all otherwise.
88.11 QUESTIONER From what you . . . I’m sorry. Go ahead. If you meant
to continue, continue. If not, I’ll ask a question.
R A I am Ra. We wished to state, thirdly, that once the instrument is
aware that the picture-taking will be performed, that during the
entire picture-taking, whether before or after the working, the
instrument be required to continuously respond to speech, thus
assuring that no trance is imminent.
88.12 QUESTIONER From what you have told me, then, I have planned the 
PHOTO GALLERY 445
following: We will, after a session is complete and the instrument has
been awakened, before moving the instrument, have the instrument
continually talk to us while I take pictures of the configuration the
instrument is in at this time. In addition to this, I will take some
other pictures of the instrument in the other room, and probably
ourselves, too, just for additional pictures of us as requested by the
publisher. Is this the optimal or one of the optimal fillings of this
requirement?
R A I am Ra. Yes. We ask that any photographs tell the truth, that
they be dated and shine with a clarity so that there is no shadow of
any but genuine expression which may be offered to those which
seek truth.
We come as humble messengers of the Law of One, desiring to
decrease distortions. We ask that you, who have been our friends,
work with any considerations such as above discussed, not with the
thought of quickly removing an unimportant detail, but, as in all
ways, regard such as another opportunity to, as the adept must, be
yourselves and offer that which is in and with you without pretense
of any kind.
446 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Above: Before the session with Ra, Don aligns the appurtenances: Bible
opened to the Gospel of John, Chapter 1, chalice, incense, and white candle.
PHOTO GALLERY 447
Above: The appurtenances that energized and nourished the instrument
placed at Carla’s head for each Ra session.
Above: Calm, courageous, fearless, serene: Carla awaits the unknown.
448 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Above: Carla being lovingly attended to by Jim before
beginning a session with Ra.
Above: Jim combs Carla’s hair into an “orderly configuration” just before
beginning a session with Ra. (69.0 & 75.33)
PHOTO GALLERY 449
Above: Carla looks to the picture-taker before beginning a session with Ra.
Jim’s chair in the background.
Above: Carla with three microphones attached to record the session
with Ra. Carla’s energy had an adverse effect upon electronics that
necessitated three recorders.
450 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Above: Notebook full of questions for Ra in his lap, Don observes
Carla singing “Amazing Grace” to be sure that she doesn’t go
into trance while the pictures were being taken.
Above: Jim begins visualizing light moving through the instrument. He
will sustain this meditation with single-pointed attention throughout
the entire session, breaking only to flip the cassettes.
PHOTO GALLERY 451
Above: Don checks his questions while Carla lies prone with microphones
attached and eyes covered before beginning a session with Ra.
Above: Don rubs Carla’s very sore and stiff shoulders after completing a
session with Ra. The weariness, Ra said, was the equivalent of “many,
many hours of harsh physical labor.”
452 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Fearless Carla L. Rueckert. Though we operated as a group, Carla alone would
face the risk of serving as the instrument and entering into trance. Ra said also
that she took the “brunt” of the greeting.
PHOTO GALLERY 453
Above: Carla, her glow subdued by significant fatigue, sits beside the
driveway of our house with our flower garden and kitchen windows
behind her.
Above: Don in the L/L office at the Watterson Trail house. Joey
Wackerbath sits on his desk while Chocolate Bar rests in the
foreground. Gandalf and Fairchild are elsewhere.
454 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Above: Jim at work in the office with Chocolate Bar in the foreground and
Joey Wackerbath in the background.
Above: The corner room of our Watterson Trail house which served as the
Ra session room.
PHOTO GALLERY 455
Above: Carla, near her 84 lb. channeling weight for the Ra contact, handing
Jim a bouquet of marigolds as they enjoy the afternoon in the little orchard
behind the Watterson Trail house.
Above: Carla dances in the leaves while Jim sits on the porch of our Lake
Lanier house where we had session #106, our last conversation with Ra.
456 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Above: Don on the phone in the L/L office at the Watterson Trail house where
105 sessions took place.
PHOTO GALLERY 457
Above: Carla poses for a picture, her steady determination showing.
458 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Above: Jim sitting in the living room of the Watterson Trail house.
PHOTO GALLERY 459
Above: We three posing in the driveway of the Watterson Trail house on a
beautiful summer’s day for one of only two pictures ever taken of us together.
THE RELISTENING REPORT
Preface from L/L Research
The following is Tobey Wheelock’s “Relistening Report” written in March,
2012, soon after the completion of the Relistening Project, an effort that
produced what he called The Relistened and the Lightly Edited Versions.
As the text of The Ra Contact book comes directly from the Lightly Edited
Version, the great majority of the changes to the Relistened and Lightly Edited
Version—that Tobey reports about below—have been carried into this book.
However, additional refinements were made to the text for The Ra Contact.
These are detailed in the following “Addendum to the Relistening Report.”
We extend our heartfelt gratitude to Tobey for his dedication to this project
and for allowing us to reprint his summary of his journey here.
Introduction
The Relistening Project started in the fall of 2004. I was interested in
understanding where the Book V material fit into the sessions from which
it had been removed. It turned out that the only way to find out where
the material belonged was to listen to copies of the original tapes. Once I
started listening, I realized that there was information that had never been
published before, and I decided that it would be worth listening carefully
to each session in order to produce a new, more accurate version of this
amazing material.
I listened to sessions 1–98 in much the way that Jim McCarty, the
original scribe, had: by playing cassettes on a small portable tape recorder.
In 2006, Gary Bean at L/L Research created digital copies of the original
tapes, and in 2007 and 2008 Terry Hsu carefully listened to mp3s of
sessions 75–106. Terry eventually decided that, since English is not his
native language, he was not the best person for the job, but his infectious
enthusiasm carried me through many a dry spell in my relistening efforts.
Eventually, I realized that the digital copies were better than the cassette
copies I had been using, so I switched to them for sessions 99–106. In
2010, I asked L/L if they could arrange for volunteers to verify the
transcripts I had created, and Gary recruited a volunteer for the job. The
volunteer began with the later sessions and worked his way back to
session 31. Time constraints made it impossible for him to continue, but 
THE RELISTENING REPORT 461
we were quite fortunate, because a different volunteer (who also wishes to
remain anonymous) picked up the baton, verified sessions 1–30, and then
worked her way through the later sessions, too.
I wanted to create as accurate a transcription as possible, but I did not
want to lose the readability of the original books. My solution has been to
produce three versions, which I call Original, Relistened, and Lightly
Edited. The Relistened is the text version that represents what is actually
on the audio as exactly as possible, stutters and all. The Lightly Edited is
the version with light edits in order to retain readability.
Update 2018: The Lightly Edited was later refined by Jim McCarty,
Gary Bean, and Austin Bridges for The Ra Contact. The default version at
Lawofone.info is now The Ra Contact. For more information about the
different versions and a way to identify the differences between them,
please see: http://www.lawofone.info/versions.php
Most significant changes
Dropped lines restored
One of the most interesting discoveries was that segments of a number of
answers were dropped in publication, many possibly due to typesetting
errors. In some cases, they clarified what had been puzzling answers from
Ra. Here is a list:
Complete list of restored lines:
• . . . You are part of a thought. You are dancing in a ballroom in
which there is no material. You are dancing thoughts. - 1.0
• . . . We, too, have our place. We are not those of the Love or of the
Light. - 1.1
• . . . This is not so with many of the entities of the Confederation.
We found it was not efficacious. - 1.1
• . . . Some of these landings are of your peoples . . . - 7.12
• . . . Other sightings are due to the inadvertent visualization by your
peoples’ optical mechanisms of your own government’s
weaponry. - 12.9
• . . . a premature aging process. We were attempting to aid in giving
the mind/body/spirit complexes of third density . . . - 14.10
• . . . always stating the prerequisite of meditation,
contemplation . . . - 15.14
462 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
• . . . The free will of your future is not making this available. We
shall speak on one item. There is a fairly large percentage,
approximately thirty-five percent of the intelligent planets, which do
not fit in the percentiles. These mysteries are of sixth and seventh
density and are not available for our speaking. - 16.27
• . . . The errors which have occurred have occurred due to the
occasional variation in the vibrational complex of this instrument
due to its ingestion of a chemical substance. - 18.1
• Go forth, therefore, rejoicing in the power and the peace of the One
Creator. - 20.45
• . . . at what you would call a later period in your time
measurement. - 27.1
• Does this fulfill the requirements of your query? - 29.32
• . . . The green-ray energy transfer occurs due to the vibratory rate
of . . . - 31.5
• . . . entity to radiate to the other- . . . - 32.1
• . . . service. You will find an infinite array of contradictory requests
for . . . - 67.11
• . . . A great deal of the answer you seek is in this sentence. - 74.8
• . . . This is for the purpose of refinement of the one original
thought. - 82.10
• . . . loss to the conscious mind of the . . . - 86.18
• . . . flight, and messages, and movement, and in some cases,
protection. The folded wing in this image is intended to
suggest . . . - 91.24
• . . . vibrations. We suggest that you then request of this living entity
that it now be welcoming and absorbent for the . . . - 95.4
New questions and answers
There were also a number of questions and answers that had never been
published before, not even in Book V. The most interesting ones: the
benefits of service to others in maintaining youthful appearance (15.6),
confederation aid in 2D to 3D harvest (19.7), sex life of the cat Gandalf
(30.13), answers to unasked questions can’t be published (42.1), and the
effects of a pyramid built of rods (58.16). In addition, several new
paragraphs in regards to healing and Carla’s energy center balance were
added to an answer from session 12 (12.31).
THE RELISTENING REPORT 463
Complete list of new questions and answers:
• (inaudible) - 1.5
• (Orion/our own UFOs) - 7.13
• Not completely new, but several new paragraphs about Carla in
question about wanderers healing themselves - 12.31
• (visitor to evening session) - 13.27
• (youthful appearance) - 15.6
• (Orion contacts) - 16.13–14; (cattle mutilations) - 16.43–46;
(Orion techniques) - 16.58
• (Confederation aid in 2D/3D harvest) - 19.7
• (Maldek) - 21.5–7; (history of Orion contacts) - 21.21–23;
(Lemuria) - 21.24–27
• (Just “Thank you.”) - 23.18
• (Coughing requests, for the most part) - 24.2–24.3, 24.5, 24.7,
24.15, 24.21, 24.22
• (coughing requests) - 26.9, 26.14, 26.29, 26.35, 26.37, 26.39
• (Coughing requests) - 28.12, 28.17
• (dinosaur extinction) - 30.8; (spiritual side of the cat Gandalf’s sex
life) - 30.13
• (instrument’s condition) - 31.1
• (will moving affect Ra contact?) - 41.3
• (difference between mentally requested and spoken questions;
question about balancing) - 42.1–2; (cattle mutilations) - 42.21
• (instrument’s condition) - 46.1; 46.6 (whether to end session) - 46.6
• (what would Ra do if incarnate now) - 48.4
• (metal bending wearing pyramid hats) - 50.10
• (instrument’s condition) - 54.1; 54.20 (programming
catalyst) - 54.20
• (rod-sided pyramid vs. solid-sided) - 58.16
• (instrument’s condition) - 60.1
• (number of wanderers) - 64.3
• (instrument’s condition) - 69.1–2; (Esmerelda Sweetwater) - 69.20–
21
• (sexual energy transfer) - 72.16
464 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
• (correction about miracles infringing on free will) - 73.15
• (galactic evolution) - 78.14
• (sexual energy transfer) - 79.3
• (Thank you) - 79.44
• (analogy of flying in a simulator to life pre-veil) - 83.8
• (Clarification) - 94.17
• (Billy Meier contact) - 100.4–5
Less significant changes
There were many tweaks to Ra’s answers and many, many changes to
Don’s questions. A few examples are shown below (Original Version
first).
Lawofone.info has functionality to review the changes between the texts
side-by-side for closer and more extensive review.
• The pyramids which we thought/built were constructed thoughtforms created by our social memory complex.
The pyramids which we thought/built were constructed from
thought-forms created by our social memory complex. - 3.11
• . . . thus bringing with them in totally latent form many skills and
understandings . . .
. . . thus bringing with them in sometimes totally latent form many
skills and understandings . . . - 4.9
• The exercise is to consciously see that love in awareness and
understanding distortions.
The exercise is to consciously seek that love in awareness and
understanding distortions. - 10.14
• to recapitulate a learning/teaching which is adjudged to be less than
perfect.
to recapitulate a learning/teaching which is adjudged to be less than
perfectly balanced. - 52.9
• Firstly, that exercise of which we have spoken called the exercise of
fire: this is, through physical energy transfer, not that which is
deeply involved in the body complex combinations.
Firstly, that exercise of which we have spoken called the exercise of
fire: this is, though physical energy transfer, not that which is deeply 
THE RELISTENING REPORT 465
involved in the body complex combinations. - 73.22
• . . . intended to be studied as individual concept complexes as
Matrix, Potentiator, etc., in viewing mind/body/spirit connections
and in pairs with . . .
. . . intended to be studied as individual concept complexes; as
Matrix, Potentiator, etc. in viewing mind/body/spirit connections;
and in pairs with . . . - 89.19
• . . . that is, to put value in a fatal action and die or to put value on
consciousness of the creation of the One Creator and, thereby, live.
. . . that is, to put value in a fatal action and die or to put value on
consciousness of the creation and of the One Creator and, thereby,
live. - 103.4
Unediting questions sometimes made Ra’s answers clearer. Example:
• Questioner: The crown of three stars, we are guessing, would
represent the balancing of the mind, body, and spirit. Is this in any
way correct?
Questioner: The crown of three stars, we are guessing, indicates
mastery and balancing of the mind, body, and spirit. Is this in any
way correct?
Ra: I am Ra. This device is astrological in origin and the
interpretation given somewhat confusing. - 100.10
Sometimes answers became less clear, for example:
• The mind/body/spirit complex known as Adolf
The mind/body/spirit complex known Adolf - 11.7
• If it is a contemplative general daydream . . .
If it is contemplative general daydream . . . - 16.54
Possible misstatements
There are a few answers where Ra may have misspoken. It’s hard to know
for sure because Don didn’t follow up on these; however, they were
changed in the originally published books. Previously published versions
shown first; actual transcripts second.
• There are no negative beings which have attained the Oversoul
manifestation . . . 
466 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
There are no beings which have attained the Oversoul
manifestation . . . - 36.12
• . . . common to a reasonable number of entities who, having lost the
desire for orange- and yellow-ray sexual experiences . . .
. . . common to a reasonable number of entities who, having lost the
desire for orange- and green-ray sexual experiences . . . - 48.2
• You may see the air and fire of that which is chaos as literally
illuminating and forming the formless
You may see the air and water of that which is chaos as literally
illuminating and forming the formless - 78.29
Edited and unedited answers
Edited answers
For the most part, the Lightly Edited Version, which is the default
version on Lawofone.info, uses the answers from the Relistened Version.
The exceptions include the possible misstatements above and other minor
tweaks:
• . . . already closely aligned with a[n] all-embracing belief in the liveness or consciousness of all. - 2.2
• This Council is located in the octave, or eight[h] dimension, of the
planet Saturn . . . - 6.8
• The mind/body/spirit complex known [as] Adolf . . . - 11.7
• The . . . memory . . . then become[s] known to the social
complex . . . - 11.17
• The balancing pyramidal structures could [be] and were used for
individual initiation. - 14.10
• tape blank LSD - 18.3
• has/is/will experienced/experiences/experiences has/is/will
experienced/experiencing/experience
• . . . the impression that they had given to those who called them
[was] that these entities were an elite group . . .
• . . . this being not only by the functions of energy transfer but also
[by] the various services performed . . . - 30.10
• There are no [negative] beings which have attained the Oversoul
manifestation . . . - 36.12
THE RELISTENING REPORT 467
• If those who desired to be healers [were] of a crystallized nature
and . . . - 57.17
• The initiation of [the] Queen’s Chamber has to do with the
abandoning of self . . . - 57.24
• . . . those things most holy . . . [were] placed. - 60.17
• Logois Logoi - 78.19
• However, in that mystic or prophet [who] desires to serve, such
service will increase the entity’s polarity. - 86.12
• The loss to the conscious mind of - 86.18
• the more carefully polarized of negative mind/body/spirits* - 89.44
• mind/body/spirits* undergoing Its care - 90.23
• D— Due Due to the first misperception - 92.17
• . . . this entity . . . [has] done substantial work . . . and [has] indeed
developed maturity and rationality. - 94.9
• Each of the images . . . [has] the increasing intensity . . . –95.27
Answers that could be edited but aren’t currently
These answers were edited in the original five books published by L/L
Research. However, they are shown in the Lightly Edited and Relistened
Versions as they were recorded in the audio:
• . . . in which case you have done you/they little or no good. - 1.9
• Please check your eye to make fine correction. - 3.4
• One item which may be of interest is that a healer asking to learn
must take the distortion understood as responsibility for that
ask/receiving, thus healing. - 4.20
• This is a honor/duty . . . - 4.20
• This entity has a experiential history of healing - 29.33
• . . . as it passes through the Queen Chamber position . . . - 56.7
• moves ever more fairly into the green ray. - 85.16
Editorial Changes
In the course of creating and editing the Relistened Version, I made some
changes to paragraphing, spelling, etc.
Paragraphing changes
• 47.15
468 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
• 52.2
• 55.18
• 63.9
• 65.23
Spelling changes
• affect(ed)/effect(ed) (3.1, 6.1, 96.2, 96.3, 97.10)
• lightening/lightning (17.27)
• principles/principals (39.9)
• dynaflagallate/dinoflagellate (41.10, 41.11, 41.13)
• effect/affect (48.2, 49.8)
• naval/navel (57.10, 57.11)
• its self/itself (60.3, 72.15, 74.11, 77.6)
• in so far/insofar (72.8, 106.23)
• your self/yourself (74.11, 85.4)
• one’s self/oneself (90.9)
• accouterments/accoutrements (94.30)
• waved/waived (96.13)
• Added accents to words that Ra pronounced with two syllables:
wingèd (91.24, 93.10, 97.5, 97.7), blessèd (106.7), markèd (67.21,
106.12).
• Added accents to séance, naïveté, naïve.
Hyphenation changes
• being-ness → beingness
• rock-ness → rockness
• third density entity → third-density entity
• in third-density → in third density
• green ray transfer → green-ray transfer
• the green-ray is → the green ray is
• the path of service-to-others → the path of service to others
• the service to others path → the service-to-others path
• the path of service-to-self → the path of service to self
• the service to self path → the service-to-self path
THE RELISTENING REPORT 469
• true color green → true-color green
• requestion → re-question
• over-ride → override
Capitalization changes
• Secrets Of The Great Pyramid → Secrets of the Great
Pyramid - 51.6
• THE LAW OF ONE → The Law of One - 53.24
• The Life Force Of The Great Pyramid → The Life Force in the
Great Pyramid - 55.14
Notes
• Session 26. In Book I, session 26 included a number of questions
that were actually from session 53. Those questions have been
removed from the versions of session 26 shown at Lawofone.info
[and in The Ra Contact]. Also, a question about sexual energy
transfer that was actually asked during this session, 26.38, was not
published until Book II (originally published as 31.1).
• Session 50. In Book II, session 50 was published somewhat out of
order. (The poker analogy was not really at the end of the session.) It
is shown in the order in which it was recorded in the Edited and
Relistened Versions [and in The Ra Contact].
• Session 75 was also originally published out of order and has also
been restored.
• There were four sessions in which Don asked Ra to cause Carla’s
body to cough: 24, 26, 28, 97 (97 was already marked as such).
• In the original books, individual’s names were shown as “(name).”
For the most part we have continued to leave names out, except
where the individuals mentioned gave permission or have since
passed away. Jim and Carla have given permission to use their names
and Don’s wherever they occurred, and we have also included the
names of two well-known UFO contactees that Ra was asked about:
Betty Andreasson and Billy Meier.
• Corrections. When Ra or Don noticed that incorrect information
had been given, they corrected that information. In the originally
published books, the incorrect questions or answers were edited. In 
470 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
the “Edited” and “Relistened” versions, the incorrect information is
shown as recorded, but the correct information is noted below it.
Observations
This project has deepened and enriched the already profound respect I
had for the individuals involved and for those of Ra. I was previously
aware that Don, Carla, and Jim had made significant sacrifices in order to
put themselves in a position to channel Ra. Listening to the sessions made
real to me that the sacrifices were ongoing and the commitment on all
parts quite unequivocal. It increased my respect for all involved:
• for Carla, because the toll it took on her was quite apparent in the
sound of her voice when she returned to her body after each session,
and because of her incredible accuracy as a channel in session one,
which was not in trance but reads very nearly the same as the other
sessions, when she was;
• for Don because of his ability to stay tuned into Ra’s lengthy and
uninflected answers and follow up with intelligent and focused
questions, and for the love and concern for Carla and respect and
friendship for Jim that he showed throughout the sessions;
• for Jim for the quiet power that he demonstrated during the times it
was necessary to re-walk the Circle of One and in flipping the tapes
(really!) and for the accuracy of his original transcriptions;
• for Ra — their faithfulness in answering, as precisely and completely
as possible whatever was asked of them, even though it was apparent,
from the tone of voice they sometimes used (for example in their
answers to questions about the archetypical mind), that they did
actually have significant preferences as to the type of information
they wanted to share.
Some of the most poignant moments in the sessions occur at the end of
each session. After Ra had given their final statement, Don would call
Carla back to her body by quietly and persistently saying his nickname for
her, “Alrac” (Carla backwards). “Alrac . . . Alrac . . . Alrac . . . ”
Sometimes it took quite a while before Carla replied. “Yeah?” she’d say,
and then Don would ask, “How do you feel?” Often the audio ended at
that point, but sometimes you’d hear Carla’s response: “OK,” or “Tired,”
or “Mmmph.” Often her voice sounded incredibly weary.
I had always wondered how Don could speak with no false starts. In fact, 
THE RELISTENING REPORT 471
he did false start, but not too often. Sometimes, Ra picked up on parts of
his questions that were later edited out. Example: 88.17 (“condense the
archetypes”). Don was remarkably good at telling when Ra was done with
an answer, but occasionally they would start talking at the same time.
Other times Ra would wait patiently until Don realized that he had only
made a statement, not asked a question, and appended “Is that correct?”
or something similar to his statement. Several times it’s possible to hear
Don chuckling or reacting, such as after Ra answered a complicated
question in one word (“No.”) (65.18)
In general, there was very little background noise, the amazing exception
being session 45, when water truckers attempted to make a delivery.
Other exceptions: a phone ringing in session 1; Jim unloading groceries
in session 1, occasional cat purrs and meows.
Ra spoke q u i t e s l o w l y and in a mostly monotone voice except
when the group discussed the archetypes—then Ra’s enthusiasm came
through. In the first session, as mentioned above, Carla was not in trance,
and her intonations sound like we expect “normal” spoken conversation
to sound. Some of the other sessions are especially monotone; it seems to
have to do with how deeply in trance Carla was. The first session is the
only time you hear the opening “I am Ra,” because in all other sessions
Don and Jim waited until Ra began speaking before they began
recording.
After the first session, L/L recorded each session on three cassettes, which
they staggered so as not to lose any information. Sessions 1–17 are fairly
faint, especially the questions, but the quality of the rest of the recordings
is relatively good. In each session, after about 45 minutes, one can hear
the sound of a cassette tape stopping and being flipped and restarted.
In conclusion, I think that it’s been worth it. The original purpose was to
reintegrate the Book V material into each session, and I think that
reading the sessions with Book V material restored does indeed add to the
experience. In many ways, the Book V material is the heart of the Ra
contact, and it’s nice to be able to read it in context. In addition, the new
material, not previously published anywhere, is interesting to read and in
some cases quite valuable. Finally, the model of dedicated service
exemplified in the sessions by Carla, Don, Jim, and Ra has been an
inspiration to me personally.
472 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Acknowledgments
Many thanks to Don Elkins, for his lifelong quest to learn, to understand,
and to pursue his learning wherever it took him. The Ra contact was the
culmination of a life of seeking. Thanks to Carla Rueckert, fearless
channel, who put her life and her soul’s freedom on the line to bring this
information through the veil, and to Jim McCarty, the engine who made
it all go. And thanks to Ra for their light, their precision and power with
words, and their faith that we humans are worth the investment.
Much appreciation, also, to Gary Bean, [then] admin at L/L Research,
who provided the initial batch of tapes to get this project started and who
has responded to my every request with humor and grace; to Terry Hsu
of Taipei, Taiwan, who provided unflagging encouragement (and
occasional well-timed reminders) that greatly helped me to renew and
maintain my commitment to this project; to the unnamed volunteer
mentioned above, who faithfully and persistently re-relistened to sessions
31–106, catching many discrepancies between my transcripts and the
actual recordings; and to the second volunteer, who has taken over the rerelistening with great gusto and diligence. I could not have completed this
project without any of them.
Finally, all thanks to my beloved wife, Jennifer, and children, Elijah and
Elise, who have listened, with good humor and sometimes even with
interest, to many more quotes from Ra than any wife or children should
ever have to.
Tobey Wheelock
March, 2012
ADDENDUM TO RELISTENED REPORT
The Lightly Edited Version described by Tobey was further refined for
publication in this book. While these two versions are not drastically
different, there have been changes and additions worth noting.
Transcript of a Conversation
The balance between accuracy and readability in depicting this cosmic
conversation was considered in the creation of the Lightly Edited Version
and further refined for the version printed in this book. In striving for the
balance, some standards and methods were applied:
• As anyone who has transcribed spoken word will know, people do
not speak with perfect grammar. Many imperfections were retained
in editing to preserve the conversational nature of this transcript. For
the most part mistakes were only corrected if retaining them would
result in confusion or misunderstanding. Thus, you will see both
Don and Ra making some grammatical mistakes.
In instances where changes or clarifications were made to Don’s
speech, they were simply edited in the transcript without identifying
marks. (Great effort was made to ensure that the intended meaning
of each thought was retained). Whenever changes or clarifications
were made to Ra’s speech, brackets or footnotes were meticulously
used to indicate each instance.
• As noted by Tobey, Don had many false starts and fragmented
thoughts as he navigated the difficult concepts being introduced by
Ra while formulating complex questions. Many of these were
retained, using the em dash plus space (— ) to indicate an abrupt
shift in Don’s thinking and suspension points (. . .) to indicate a
pause or trailing off.
Punctuation
Perhaps the most intensive and significant refinement was in
punctuation. Punctuating transcribed word is an innately difficult task
that was made more difficult by the manner in which Ra spoke through
Carla. Mechanically manipulating her vocal cords from a distance, they
spoke slowly at a set cadence with little inflection. This made punctuating
this transcript a sometimes creative and interpretive endeavor. Some
points of note regarding punctuation include:
474 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
• Additional paragraph breaks and various punctuation marks
indicating a pause have been added (or removed) to help clarify or
deepen the intended meaning of a statement.
• In addition to the already-used commas and semi-colons, em dashes
(—) were introduced to help break up and add clarity Ra’s sentences
containing many clauses.
• General refinement to the placement of punctuation such as
commas has hopefully helped the readability of the text. Sometimes
the strict rules of punctuation have been bent in order to aid this
readability.
• In almost all cases, changes to punctuation did not result in a change
of meaning. There were some instances, however, where a deeper
reading of Ra’s reply necessitated a change in punctuation in order
to reflect what we felt was Ra’s actual intended meaning. One
example follows:
57.17, Lightly Edited - Ra: If those who desired to be healers
[were] of a crystallized nature and were all supplicants, those
wishing less distortion, the pyramid would be, as always, a
carefully designed set of parameters to distribute light and its
energy so as to aid in healing catalyst.
57.17, The Ra Contact - Ra: If those who desired to be healers
[were] of a crystallized nature, and were all supplicants those
wishing less distortion, the pyramid would be, as always, a
carefully designed set of parameters to distribute the light and its
energy so as to aid in healing catalyst.
In the former, the punctuation fails to differentiate between healer
and supplicant. It indicates that, for the pyramid to act in its
intended design, healers must be “of a crystallized nature” and acting
as “supplicants wishing less distortion.”
After we realized that the supplicant is the one to be healed (the
patient), it was clear that healer and supplicant were two different
entities present in healing. The following, then, became its own
clause: “and were all supplicants those wishing less distortion.”
Meaning: when the healers are of a crystallized nature, and when all
patients are those wishing less distortion (healing), then the pyramid
would function according to its design.
THE RELISTENING REPORT 475
Footnotes
Various footnotes have been added to aid readers and expand certain
topics, including:
• Additional definitions of words so unusual (sometimes because
archaic) that they would not be recognized by most English readers.
• Notes from Jim giving context and insight for some passages.
• References given for when Ra refers to previously discussed material.
• Clarifications and corrections of errors Ra identified, or of very
strongly presumed errors that were not identified by Ra.
Capitalization
Some new capitalization standards were implemented in hopes to create
consistency and clarity for certain context. For instance, terms describing
the beginning cosmology of the Law of One that are read like proper
nouns were capitalized, including First, Second, and Third Distortions;
along with Free Will, Love, and Light when they refer to those primal
three distortions. One Infinite Creator, of course. All Laws and their
synonyms: Ways. Great Central Sun. The seven categories of archetypes:
Matrix, Potentiator, Catalyst, Experience, Significator, Transformation,
Great Way, and The Choice.
Some terms that were capitalized inconsistently, such as wanderer and
higher self, were made consistent in their capitalization. Guardians
seemed to be used in three different ways, including in the top tier those
entities from the next octave, in the middle tier those of this octave who
watch over and facilitate harvest, and those of the lower tier who are our
personal guardians. The first two categories were capitalized.
These standards are necessarily arbitrary but were considered heavily.
Hyphenating Distortion
Ra qualifies a lot of things as “distortions,” from a thought, to a person, to
Free Will itself. Sometimes distortion was the operative word. Often they
used it almost as if it were an add-on, something appended to a noun to
qualify that noun as a distortion. In such instances where “distortion”
wasn’t necessary to use, but used in such a way so as to form a compound
with the noun, hyphens were added. For instance:
• . . . in your projections of mind-distortion at this
time/space . . . - 2.0
• . . . for all understanding-distortions are available . . . - 11.17
• . . . entertain the thought-distortion towards this entity . . . - 86.2
476 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Five Books of the Law of One vs. The Ra Contact
The following chart depicts the differences in the journey of the two
transcriptions, highlighting what makes each unique.
Original cassette recordings
↓
Original cassette recordings
↓
First transcript
• Questioner’s questions edited for
clarity
• Q&As intentionally omitted due to
transient or personal nature
• 55 Q&As accidentally missed. (Not
discovered until Relistening
Project. See next column.)
• Occasional mistakes in
transcription made
↓
New Re-Listened Transcript
• Cassettes relistened to in order to
produce new transcript
• Exact transcript of recordings: no
edits
• Omitted material restored
• New Q&As discovered
• Q&A numbers added. (eg “1.13”)
• New footnotes
↓
Original published books
• Titled: The Ra Material or Law of
One
• 50-page Introduction
• Five books
• All features listed above
• Intentionally omitted Q&As
published 15 years later in Book V
• Jim and Carla’s commentary
included in Book V
Lightly Edited Transcript
• All features listed above + light
edits for improved comprehension
↓
New Books
• Titled: The Ra Contact: Teaching
the Law of One
• 2 Volumes featuring above plus:
• Further, mostly grammatical
refinements to editing
• More Footnotes
• New photo gallery, Introduction,
Foreword, Epilogue, Afterword,
massive Index
• No Book V Commentary
THE RELISTENING REPORT 477
The Final Text
All of the various changes listed were made in the hope of producing a
more readable, clear, and consistently presented transcript of this
conversation. It is inevitable that any written representation of a recorded
conversation may introduce distortion to the intended meaning for each
statement made. Each decision was made with the ultimate consideration
of Ra’s and Don’s intention, attempting always to preserve the purity of
the conversation as it was spoken, and, when in doubt, erring on the side
of retaining authenticity.
This book represents our final and best effort to present a transcript with
minimal distortion. It is a continuation of the Lightly Edited Version that
attempts to capture in text a representation of the conversation between
Don and Ra with minimal distortion and refinements made only when
necessary.
You can listen to the original audio of that conversation online from
www.llresearch.org or www.lawofone.info.
Austin Bridges
Gary Bean
Jim McCarty
January, 2018
GLOSSARY
Adept – One who devotes the self to seeking the Creator using the
disciplines of the personality in the work of faith and spirit. After having
adequately balanced the preceding energy centers, the adept proceeds into
indigo-ray to make contact with intelligent infinity. The adept may bring
intelligent energy through the indigo gateway in order to heal, teach, and
work for the Creator in ways that are both radiant and balanced.
Whatever the outer service, though, the adept’s primary work is not that
of doing, but of being.
Archetypal Mind – The architecture of the nature of the evolution of
mind, body, and spirit, containing all facets which may affect mind or
experience. It is a resource within the deep mind that is of great potential
aid to the adept. The archetypal mind is not specifically a plan for
evolution but is rather, when penetrated lucidly, a blueprint without
distortion of the builded structure of all energy expenditures and all
seeking.
Bodies (Seven) – One of the preconditions for space/time existence is
some form of body complex. Each body offers a vehicle for learning,
movement, and experience in a particular environment. Including the
present physical body, there are seven basic bodies.
Red Ray: The unconstructed material of the body, the elemental
body without form, the chemical body. Not, however, the biological
system of bone, tissue, organs, muscle, nerves, hormones,
electrochemical impulses and so forth that is the human physical
body. This basic unformed material body is important to understand
for there are healings which may be carried out by the simple
understanding of the elements present in the physical vehicle.
Orange Ray: This purely physical body complex formed without selfawareness, the body in the womb before the spirit/mind complex
enters. This body may live without the inhabitation of the mind and
spirit complexes. However, it seldom does so.
Yellow Ray: The body that is in activation within third-density
incarnation; the physical vehicle as we now know it that is integrated
with mind and spirit. 
GLOSSARY 479
The following higher bodies—often referred to as subtle bodies—are available
to the third-density entity, but there is skill and discipline needed in order to
avail the self of the more advanced or lighter vehicles. They are not necessary
for third-density work but are useful to the adept.
Green Ray: A lighter body packed more densely with life, called by
some teachings the astral body. It is the body that will be activated
and enjoyed by those in the fourth-density cycle of experience.
Blue Ray: A body of light which may also be called the devachanic
body. There are many other names for this body, especially in the
Indian Sutras as those of that culture have explored the regions
available to the blue-ray body.
Indigo Ray: The etheric, or gateway, or form-maker body, described
both as the “analog for intelligent energy” and “being intelligent
energy.” In this body, form is substance; it would be perceptible to
our eyes only as light, as it may mold itself as it desires.
This is the first body activated upon what we call death (the cessation
of the yellow-ray body). The indigo body also plays a critical role in
health and healing, adopting the desired configuration and
manifesting it in the yellow-ray body.
Violet Ray: The violet-ray body may perhaps be understood as what
we might call the Buddha body or that body which is complete. It is
also the body activated during the anomalous moment of harvest in
order to gauge the harvestability of the entity.
Catalyst – A neutral instigator that, when used, offers learning (especially
of pre-incarnatively chosen lessons), facilitates evolution, develops will
and faith, precipitates experience, and polarizes the third-density entity.
Essentially all that reaches the senses and everything that comes before the
notice of an entity is catalyst, though other-selves are the primary
mechanism of catalyst, serving as mirrors that offer reflections of the fruit
of beingness.
The Choice – The primary function of the very intense, very short
third-density experience is the making of the Choice: to choose and
dedicate the self to the positive path of service to others or the negative
path of service to self. If the catalyst of third density is successfully used to
make the Choice, that is, to polarize and bias the consciousness (measured 
480 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
in vibratory rate of 51% for service to others and 95% for service to self),
then, at the time of harvest, the entity will graduate from third to fourth
density.
Complex – A term used by Ra essentially as a noun in the same fashion
as Merriam-Webster defines it: “A whole made up of complicated or
interrelated parts.” Ra speaks of it this way in context of the archetypes:
“A concept complex is a complex of concepts just as a molecule is a
complex structure made up of more than one type of energy nexus or
atom.”
Some examples include: mind/body/spirit complex, mind complex, body
complex, spirit complex, social memory complex, sound vibrational
complex, and many more.
It may also mean a complex of something. When used this way, it may
denote either a whole made of up interrelated parts (as in the above
definition), or an assortment of multiple things, e.g.: “a complex of
thought, ideas, and actions.”
Confederation (of Planets In the Service of the Infinite Creator) –
The Confederation of Planets (often called the “Confederation” for
shorthand) is a group consisting of approximately fifty-three civilizations,
comprising approximately five hundred planetary consciousnesses, along
with entities from Earth’s inner planes and graduates from Earth’s third
density. It is a true Confederation in that its members are not alike but
are all allied in service according to the Law of One. In this
Confederation each of the constituent social memory complexes
voluntarily place their collective data in a central repository that becomes
available to all members.
There are many Confederations in the galaxy, but in almost all cases this
term refers to the one currently serving Earth.
Whereas their counterpart, the Orion Empire, calls itself to conquest, the
Confederation of Planets awaits the call to service.
Crystallization (Crystallize, Crystallized Being) – Used in reference
to energy centers or entities themselves. As Ra describes it, when a
crystalline structure is formed of physical material, the elements present in
each molecule are bonded in a regularized fashion with the elements in
each other molecule. Thus the structure is regular and, when fully and 
GLOSSARY 481
perfectly crystallized, has certain properties. It will not splinter or break; it
is very strong without effort; and it is radiant, traducing light into a
beautiful refraction giving pleasure of the eye to many.
Through consistent work in consciousness over a period of time (aka: the
“discipline of the personality”), energy centers themselves become
crystalline, forming unique crystal structures described in 51.8.
Density – One of seven (or eight, depending on the perspective)
dimensions or cycles of evolution in an octave of experience. It is called
“density” because each successive density is more densely packed with
light. Akin to a musical scale, seven densities are grouped together in an
octave, where the eighth density begins the first of the next octave in an
infinite string of octaves. Each density represents a quantum vibrational
spectrum or portion of intelligent energy, and each density cycles, or
moves to the next density, according to the predetermined clock-like
rhythms of intelligent energy.
Designed by the Logos, each density of experience offers its own set
lessons and parameters that must be learned and understood in order to
cross the threshold and graduate from one density to the next. Each
density has seven sub-densities. Each sub-density has seven sub-sub
densities. And so on, infinitely. The core vibrations of the seven densities
have correspondence to the seven true colors and the seven energy centers.
Disciplines of the Personality – The paramount work of any who have
become consciously aware of the process of evolution. The heart of the
discipline of the personality is threefold: One, know yourself. Two, accept
yourself. Three, become the Creator.
The discipline of the personality results, eventually, in the whole
knowledge of the self in micro- and macrocosm, and in a finely tuned
compassion and love which sees all things as love.
Distortion – The second definition given for “distort” in MerriamWebster is “to twist (something) out of a natural, normal, or original
shape or condition.” In a similar sense, Ra uses the term “distortion” to
convey the twisting, modification, misrepresentation, or concealment of
the un-differentiated, un-potentiated intelligent infinity in its pure form,
i.e., the Creator.
482 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Everything in the universe, then, is a distortion, beginning with the First
Distortion of Free Will, moving to Love, then to Light, then to the
created universe, including stars, planets, people, space, time, etc.
“Distortion” can have any value assigned to it (“good,” “bad,” “beautiful,”
“terrible,”) but ultimately lacks positive and negative connation. It is used
as a strictly neutral term to indicate that everything experienced within
creation is a distortion of the One Creator.
Dual-Activated (Bodies, Entities) – Entities harvested from other
third-density planets who have incarnated in Earth’s third density to
make the transition with this planet into fourth density. These entities are
not wanderers in the sense that this planetary sphere is their fourthdensity home planet. They are the pioneers or forerunners of Earth’s
fourth density.
They incarnate with a third-density/fourth-density double body in
activation. This transitional body is one which will be able to appreciate
fourth-density energies as the instreaming increases without the
accompanying disruption of the third-density body. (If a third-density
entity were electrically aware of fourth density in full, the third-density
electrical fields would fail due to incompatibility.)
The purpose of such combined activation is that such entities are to some
extent consciously aware of those fourth-density understandings which
third density is unable to remember due to the forgetting. Thus fourthdensity experience may be begun with the added attraction of dwelling in
a troubled third-density environment and offering its love and
compassion. It is a privilege to be allowed this early an incarnation as
there is much experiential catalyst in service to other-selves at this
harvesting.
At the time of the Ra contact, dual-activated entities were limited to those
harvested from other planets. It is possible that entities harvested from
Earth have since joined their ranks.
Energy Centers – The seven rays or centers of consciousness that filter
and process the love/light energy of the One Creator, drawn in through
both the south and north poles of the energy system. Each energy center
(or ray, or chakra) represents a stage or modality of consciousness with its
own expressions, lessons, and aspect of the overall identity of self. 
GLOSSARY 483
Arranged sequentially in hierarchical, ROYGBIV structure, all life
experienced is processed through the sequence of energy centers.
Harvest, General (Graduation) – The point of transition between the
densities within an octave that operates according to what might be
perceived as a three-dimensional clock-like face stretched across the entire
galaxy. As the galaxy revolves or spirals, each constituent solar system and
planet moves through the scheduled density of experience. The cycles
move precisely as a clock strikes the hour. Upon completing a density, or
cycle therein, those who have successfully learned the lesson of that cycle
are harvested in order that they may ascertain whether they are ready to
graduate to the next density. This is perhaps somewhat analogous to
passing a final exam at the end of a grade in school in order to move onto
the next grade.
Higher Self (Oversoul) – A being beyond polarity in the mid-sixth
density that exists with full understanding of the accumulation of
experiences of the entity. Operating from what we would consider our
future, the higher self is you at mid-sixth density: the end result of all the
development experienced by you up to that point. Every entity—whether
positive, negative, or undecided—has a higher self. Whatever guidance is
received from the higher self may be interpreted in a positive or negative
light depending upon the polarity of the seeker, though the negative
entity, separated from itself, is not likely to seek such guidance.
The higher self also works closely with the entity in between incarnations,
aiding the entity in achieving healing of the experiences which have not
been learned properly, and assisting in further life experience
programming. Whatever its activity, though, the free will of the incarnate
entity is paramount in the service it offers.
Honor/Responsibility, Honor/Duty, and vice versa – Each
responsibility is an honor; each honor, a responsibility. Responsibilities
and duties are not seen as chores or obligations to which one is shackled
in a pejorative sense; rather, the seeker has the freedom to accept the
responsibility or duty as an honor, and freedom to fulfill the
responsibility or duty as a service. (It is Ra’s honor/responsibility to stay
with those of planet Earth to eliminate the distortions given to the Law of
One.)
484 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Initiation – A person will move through multiple initiations during the
course of their incarnation. Each initiation may be characterized generally
by stating that a threshold is crossed that delineates the former experience
from the newer. This may transpire in a moment or over a long period of
time. There is often a challenge or difficulty associated with the crossing
of the threshold, and some measure of will and faith needed. For some
this may manifest as a dark night of the soul.
Ra speaks of initiation as a process and means whereby the
mind/body/spirit complex becomes a purified or initiated channel for the
Law of One. The mind, the body, the spirit, or all of the above may move
through an initiation. Such an initiated person may then channel the
love/light of the One Infinite Creator through the gateway in order to be
of service, whether that service be radiance of being alone, or the magical
work of indigo ray, the communication of blue ray, or the healing of
green ray.
Inner Light – The energy which dwells within an entity, that which is
the entity’s heart of being, the birthright and true nature of all entities.
Drawn by the strength of the inner light, the upward spiraling light enters
the red ray and moves northward through the energy centers of an entity
to be met and reacted to by the inner light, indicating the level of an
entity’s progression. The strength of the inner light equals the strength of
will to seek the light.
Inner Planes – Whereas humans in their physical bodies experiencing
incarnation in the physical world are in space/time or outer planes, the
non-physical portion of the third-density experience is in time/space, or
inner planes. The inner planes are also experienced in between
incarnations in the review and healing of the previous incarnation and the
planning of the coming incarnation. They are also entered in the
dreaming state and in other modes of non-ordinary consciousness.
Karma – Ra likens karma to inertia: those actions which are put into
motion will continue using the ways of balancing until such time as the
controlling or higher principle, which may likened unto braking or
stopping, is invoked. This stoppage of the inertia of action may be called
forgiveness. These two concepts are inseparable. In forgiveness lies the
stoppage of the wheel of action, or what you call karma. Actions 
GLOSSARY 485
undertaken in a consciously unloving manner with other beings are those
which may generate karma.
Law of One – Beyond the limitations of language, the Law of One may
be approximated by stating that all things are one, that there is no
polarity, no right or wrong, no disharmony, but only identity. You are
every thing, every being, every emotion, every event, every situation. You
are unity. You are infinity. You are love/light, light/love. You are.
To state that another way: All is one. That one is love/light, light/love,
the Infinite Creator. This is the Law of One.
Law of Responsibility – A law or way which begins to be effectuated by
the increasing ability of entities to grasp the lessons to be learned in this
density. If a quickened or increased rate of learning is sought, the Law of
Responsibility requires that the greater understanding be put into practice
in the moment to moment experience of the entity. Likewise, the closer
to the light one seeks to stand, the more the Law of Responsibility goes
into effect. When in earlier cycles of this third-density experience the
catalysts went unused, the lessons not learned, the fruits of learning not
demonstrated, the life span became greatly reduced, for the ways of
honor/duty were not being accepted.
Laws – Though the field of physics as it applies to the material realm
(i.e., space/time) is a limited approach to understanding what Ra may
mean by “Law,” the definition can begin there. Scientific laws are
understood to be fundamental operations of the physical universe that are
not human-designed but human-discovered. Among their characteristics,
scientific laws are verifiably empirically true, simple, absolute, stable,
constant, and universal. Everything in the universe must in some way
comply with or conform to or operate within these laws.
Ra indicates that there is actually only one law: the Law of One. Other
so-called laws are distortions of this law, though some of them being
primal and incredibly significant for evolutionary progress. Ra
nevertheless does use the word “Law” when referring to the law-like
distortions of the Law of One, such as Law of Confusion, Law of Love,
Law of Light, etc. Ra indicates that the term “law” is interchangeable with
“way.”
486 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Learn/Teaching (Teach/Learning) – Learn/teaching and
teach/learning are inverse terms, one to the other. A teacher is a
teach/learner; a student a learn/teacher. To learn is the same as to teach,
unless you are not teaching what you are learning; in which case you have
done you/they little or no good. One cannot learn/teach for another, but
only teach/learn.
Logos (Logoi)Sub-logos – Logos is the Second Primal Distortion of the
Law of One, the focusing of intelligent infinity through free will into
intelligent energy, the Creative Principle, or Love. Each Creative
Principle, Love, or Logos designs its own creation or system. Each Logos
determines the paths of intelligent energy, designing the natural laws and
ways of expressing them mathematically and otherwise. This energy is of
an ordering nature which creates its patterns in holographic style.
The mind/body/spirit complex, or human being, once sufficiently
awakened, is itself a Logos—or, more technically, a sub-sub-sub-Logos.
Sub-logos (Sub-Logoi) – The One Great Logos (Primal Logos,
Great Central Sun) that creates the octave (universe, creation) is the
Logos. Ra also commonly uses the term “Logos” to refer to the
galactic Logoi, thus using the term “sub-Logos” to refer to the solar
Logoi (sun body) and “sub-sub-Logos” to refer to mind/body/spirit
complexes. All levels of sub-Logoi, like the Logos, are possessed of
free will. Within the guidelines or ways of the senior Logos, the
junior sub-Logos may find various means of differentiating and
refining experiences without removing or adding to these ways. Every
entity that exists is a sub-Logos of some order down to the limits of
any observation, for the entire creation is alive. Each is also a coCreator which, in holographic style, contains the whole.
Ra may, at times, use the “sub” prefix inconsistently, though it is
always used to indicate a hierarchical architecture of the Logoi. If the
one Primal Logos of the octave is seen as the first or original tier in
the Logos hierarchy, and if it is thereby used as the basis for the “sub”
prefixes, then sub-Logos could refer to the next tier (galactic Logoi),
sub-sub-Logos to solar Logoi, and sub-sub-sub-Logoi referring to
mind/body/spirit complexes. (92.22 may be an example of this
nomenclature.)
GLOSSARY 487
Love/Light (Light/Love) – In the infinite universe there is only one
energy: love/light or light/love or intelligent energy—the universe is made
from and of love/light, light/love. It is that energy which heals, builds,
removes, destroys, transforms, and forms the pathways or so-called
natural laws of any particular universe. This energy comes into being as
Love (the Second Primal Distortion), using Free Will, creates Light (the
Third Primal Distortion), thus becoming love/light.
Love and light (like love and wisdom), are not black and white, but faces
of the same coin. There is the same difference between love/light and
light/love as there is between teach/learning and learn/teaching.
Love/light is the enabler, the power, the energy giver. Light/love is the
manifestation which occurs when light has been impressed with love.
Magic – The ability to create changes in consciousness through will, or
the ability to consciously use the unconscious. Magic is the work of the
adept; it is a sacramental connection undertaken at the level of the
gateway, or indigo ray, which is fed by the disciplines of the personality.
The heart of white magic (the positive use of magic) is an experience of
the joy of union with the Creator that joins body, mind, and spirit with
the One Infinite Creator and radiates throughout the life experience.
Magical Personality – When the higher self is properly and efficaciously
invoked for the purpose of a working, it is called the magical personality.
Upon this invocation, a bridge is made between space/time and
time/space. As consequence, the higher self directly experiences the thirddensity catalyst for the duration of the working. And the third-density self
takes upon itself something of a vestment of a personality of
consciousness that bestows magical perception and power.
Master & Major Cycles – Third density begins and ends in the span of
a master cycle, ours being approximately 75,000–76,000 years. At the end
of the master cycle, all are harvested regardless of their progress. Those
who have successfully polarized will transfer to a polarized fourth-density
home. Those who have not made the Choice will repeat third density
elsewhere. Within the master cycle are three major cycles of
approximately 25,000 years.
Maldek – What we know as the asteroid belt is the remains of a former
planet which was home to active first, second, and third densities. There 
488 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
are various names by which this planet has been identified, but in certain
quarters of Earth’s history (perhaps some of which have been lost) it
apparently had the name of Maldek. The third-density population of
Maldek had a civilization that gained much technological information
and used it without care for the preservation of their planet, following the
ways of warfare and service to self which was sincerely believed to be
service to others. The escalating devastation wracked their biosphere and
caused its disintegration.
Mars – Was once home to active first, second, and third density
vibrations. The tendencies of the native third-density population toward
warfare caused the atmosphere to become inhospitable before the end of
its cycle. The Confederation aided these entities by transferring them at
the start of Earth’s third-density experience 75,000 years ago. This
transfer was unusual in that their genetic material was preserved, adjusted,
and, through a sort of cloning process, transferred to Earth.
Consequently, the quarantine of planet Earth was instituted due to the
assessment of the Guardians that the free will of those of Mars had been
abridged.
Meditation – Ra describes meditation as a foundational prerequisite of
the path of the spiritual seeker, for without such a method of reversing
the analytical process, one could not integrate into unity the many
understandings gained in such seeking. They would not endorse a best
way to meditate, but described broad categories:
1. The passive meditation involving the clearing of the mind and
emptying of the mental jumble which is characteristic of the
human mind complex. This is efficacious for those whose goal is
to achieve an inner silence as a base from which to listen to the
Creator. It is by far the most generally useful type of meditation
as opposed to contemplation or prayer.
2. Contemplation or the consideration in a meditative state of an
inspiring image, text, or spiritual principle.
3. The faculty of will called praying. Whether it is indeed an
helpful activity depends quite totally upon the intentions and
objects of the one who prays.
GLOSSARY 489
4. The type of meditation which may be called visualization is the
tool of the adept. When the ability to hold visual images in mind
has become crystallized in an adept, the adept may then, without
external action, do polarizing in consciousness which can affect
the planetary consciousness. Only those wishing to pursue the
conscious raising of planetary vibration will find visualization to
be a particularly satisfying type of meditation.
Mind Complex – That aspect of an entity which contains feelings,
emotions, intellectual thoughts, ideation, imagination, conceptualization,
dreaming, etc. It reflects the inpourings of the spirit and the up-pourings
of the body complex. The mind is referred to as “complex” due to the
veiling that partitions the conscious from the unconscious mind.
Ra describes the mind as having a configuration of layers or deeper
natures. The intuition conveys information to the individual mind from
the deeper aspects of the racial mind, the planetary mind, the archetypical
mind, and the cosmic mind. The spirit complex then funnels these roots
of mind into contact with intelligent infinity.
Mind/Body/Spirit Complex – A term Ra uses to refer to entities (aka:
people) of third-density or higher. (Second-density entities are referred to
as mind/body complexes.) Mind, body, and spirit are inextricably
intertwined and cannot continue, one without the other. The work of
third density is done through the interaction of these three components,
not through any one.
The nature of the mind, body, and spirit as complex (consisting of
seemingly separate and distinct components or parts) is a result of the
veiling. Pre-veil entities were simply mind/body/spirits (non-complex).
Mixed Contact – It is possible for a positively oriented but un-tuned
and confused channel to receive both positive and negative
communications. If the channel at the base of its confusion is oriented
towards service to others, negative sources may impress messages which
speak of coming doom and offer reason to fear. Many channeling
contacts have been confused and self-destructive because the channels
were oriented towards service to others but, in the desire for proof, were
open to the deceptive information of the crusaders who were then able to
neutralize the effectiveness of the channel. Tuning and challenging are
always counseled for positively oriented channels.
490 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Octave – The system of densities that the evolving entities and social
memory complexes move through takes place within a larger cycle known
as an octave. Each octave contains seven densities with the eighth density
being the first density of the following octave. Each octave is a heartbeat
that births a new universe which begins with first density and is absorbed
again at the eighth density. That which is learned in one octave is carried
forward in the next. Acknowledging limitations upon their knowledge,
Ra assumes that there are an infinite number of octaves, the ways of the
octave being without time; that is, there are seven densities in each
creation, infinitely.
As the creation can be seen to have some fractal characteristics, Ra
sometimes refers to individual densities, sub-densities, or even certain
cycles of experience, as octaves. Octave is also synonymous with the terms
universe and creation.
One Original Thought/Original Thought – All things, all of life, all
of the creation is part of One Original Thought. In each octave this
Original Thought contains the harvest of all experience of the Creator by
the Creator from the preceding octaves. For instance, the harvest of the
previous octave into our present octave was the efficiency of the
male/female polarity, and the Creator of Love manifested in mind, body,
and spirit.
Orion – An empire of entities and social memory complexes who have
chosen the negative path. Whereas the Confederation of Planets is
organized as a confederation of alliances which share power and service on
the basis of the oneness of all things, the Orion Group organizes itself on
the basis of power against power, establishing a pecking order with the
more powerful controlling the less powerful. The Confederation teaches
unity and service to others; the Orion Empire teaches separation and
service to self. They do this by calling themselves to conquest, attempting
to bring third-density entities and planets into their fold using various
means of manipulation and enslavement. This is done by finding and
establishing an elite and causing others to serve the elite. Due to the
problems inherent in pitting power against power, spiritual entropy
causes them to experience constant disintegration of their social memory
complexes, thus their numbers are perhaps one-tenth of the
Confederation’s at any point.
GLOSSARY 491
They are referred to as Orion because social memory complexes from the
Orion constellation have the upper hand and thus rule the other
members. It is unclear whether there are also positive beings from the
stars within the Orion constellation.
Other-Self – The term Ra uses to refer to entities other than the self, i.e.
I am your other-self, and you are my other-self. It is also a term that
acknowledges the unity of all things, for each is a self, and each is an
other-self to a self, and each is part of one self: the One Infinite Creator.
Polarity (In Consciousness) – In order to successfully graduate from
the third density, consciousness can and must become polarized toward
one pole or the other: “service to others” or “service to self.” The purpose
of polarity is to develop the potential to do work. This work drives
evolution forward and galvanizes the development of will and faith,
creating a more vivid and intensive experience of the Creator knowing
itself. Called the axis upon which the creation turns, the higher densities
do their work due to the polarity gained in this choice until sixth density
when the polarities are released.
The Law of One blinks neither at the light or the darkness, but is
available for service to others and service to self. In sixth density, the
density of unity, the positive and negative paths must needs take in each
other for all now must be seen as love/light and light/love. This is not
difficult for the positive polarity, which sends love and light to all otherselves. It is difficult enough for service-to-self polarized entities that at
some point the negative polarity is abandoned.
Possibility/Probability Vortex – A term used by Ra to describe
possible experiences and scenarios in the future (as we understand it).
Some vortices or possibilities may be stronger than others, having a higher
probability of unfolding based upon the free will choices of the entities
involved and existing patterns of momentum and energy. Any
possibility/probably complex has an existence due to infinite opportunity.
Prophecy can be considered a viewing of various possibility/probability
vortices, with the stronger vortices being more readily perceivable. The
value of prophecy must be realized to be only that of expressing
possibilities.
492 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Programming (Incarnational) – Prior to an entity becoming
consciously aware of the path of spiritual evolution, incarnation is
automatic and catalyst is generally of a random nature. When the entity
becomes aware of the mechanism for spiritual evolution (upon the
activation of the green-ray energy center), the entity itself will, prior to
incarnation, arrange and place those lessons and entities necessary for
maximum growth and expression of polarity in the incarnative
experience. Such programming may include: genetic predispositions,
selection of parents and family, life circumstances, time period in which
the incarnation will take place, personality characteristics, lessons of
polarity, balance between love and wisdom, etc.
Psychic Greeting (Psychic Attack) – The energizing of pre-existing
distortions of a third-density seeker by higher-density entities. A negative
greeting may consist of the tempting of the entity or group of entities
away from total polarization towards service to others and toward the
aggrandizement of self or of social organizations with which the self
identifies. Depending upon the vibratory nature and purpose of the
greeting, the third-density entity may be energized, blocked, or its
imbalances accentuated.
Quarantine – Approximately 75,000 years ago, those who Ra calls the
Guardians transferred the genetic material of the third-density Mars
population from its destroyed home to Earth. This was deemed to be an
abridgement of free will, so a quarantine was placed around Earth by the
Guardians at the start of the 75,000 year master cycle of third density.
The quarantine prevents interference from entities of other densities
except in two circumstances: one, the Council grants permission to break
quarantine, or two, a negative entity takes advantage of the window
effect.
Ra – A social memory complex that evolved upon the planet Venus,
experiencing the third-density there 2.6 billion years ago, they have since
left the planet and are presently at the sixth-density level of evolution.
Their primary purpose is to teach the Law of One in response to the call
for service issuing from this planet. They have made historical attempts of
this, including interacting with the Egyptians. Their teachings, however,
were distorted by the peoples of the time, thus their primary present goal
is to heal those distortions given to the Law of One.
GLOSSARY 493
Seniority of Vibration – The preferential treatment that gives priority
of reincarnation to entities who are aware of the need to bend mind,
body, and spirit toward achieving harvestability. It can be likened to
placing various grades of liquids in the same glass: some will rise to the
top, others will sink to the bottom. Layers and layers of entities will
ensue, and, as harvest draws near, those filled with the most light and love
will naturally, and without supervision, be in line for the experience of
incarnation.
Service to Others (Positive Path) – One of two paths of polarity
chosen in third-density experience. Also called the path of that which is;
love, acceptance, and radiance are the hallmarks of the positive path. The
positive path seeks to understand the unity of all things and revolves
around the understanding, experiencing, accepting, and merging of self
with self and with other-self, and finally with the Creator. In the desire to
serve others is the fundamental respect for the free will of all beings and
thus the positive entity awaits the call to service, serving only insofar as it
is requested. The best way of service to others is the constant attempt to
seek to share the love of the Creator as it is known to the inner self. This
path attempts to open and balance the full spectrum of energy centers.
Service to Self (Negative Path) – One of two paths of polarity chosen
in third-density experience. Also called the path of that which not; control,
manipulation, and absorption are the hallmarks of the negative path. This
path is predicated upon separation and the manipulation, infringement,
and enslavement of the free will of all other selves for the benefit of the
self. This necessitates an omission and denial of universal love, or the
green-ray energy center. Thus lacking empathy, the service-to-self entity
does not await the call to service but calls itself to conquest.
Sexual Energy Transfer – Energy transfer in general is the release of
potential energy differences across a potentiated space. Sexual energy
transfer is the transfer of energy during sexual intercourse between two
sexually polarized entities depending upon the male/female principle
ratio. Both positive and negative sexual energy transfers are possible.
Positive energy transfer requires both entities to be vibrating at a greenray level. In the positive transfer, the male will have offered the discharge
of physical energy to the female, and the female discharges its stored
mental and emotional energy. The transfer is mutually uplifting and 
494 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
enhancing, and offers possibility of polarization and service. With careful
development this transfer also holds the possibility of opening the
gateway and experiencing sacramental communion with the Creator.
Sinkhole of Indifference – The spiritual path being predicated on the
choice between the positive and negative polarities, the sinkhole of
indifference is the state of remaining unpolarized and not achieving the
transformation afforded by making the Choice. It is a state of being lessthan-conscious and without power, a blind repetition of patterns. When
neither path is chosen, the entity will continue to receive catalyst until it
forms a bias towards acceptance and love or separation and control.
Social Memory Complex – When a collection of related entities, called
a social complex, reaches a point of one orientation or seeking, it becomes
a social memory complex. In a social memory complex, the experience of
each entity is available to the whole, this forming a group memory that
becomes available to the entire social complex. This is generally achieved
in fourth density by positive and negative groups. The advantages of this
complex are the relative lack of distortion in understanding the social
beingness and the relative lack of distortion in pursuing the direction of
seeking.
Negative social memory complexes are organized in a strict pecking order
on the basis of relative power, those more powerful controlling and
enslaving the less. Positive social memory complexes are organized on the
basis of unity, or the Creator in all things. In this arrangement, power and
love are shared and free-will-respecting service is freely given.
Space/Time and Time/Space – Space/time is the visible, physical
realm that we now experience as conscious, incarnate beings. This is the
realm of physics and the proverbial five senses. Time/space is the
invisible, metaphysical realms, also known as the inner planes. This is the
realm of intention and the unconscious. The terminology is likely based
upon the theories of physics of Dewey Larson, used by Don and Ra to
integrate this scientific understanding with the spiritual understanding.
Space/time and time/space are complex and complete systems that form
fundamental aspects of our illusion. They share an inverse relationship
due to the inequality between time and space. In space/time, the spatial
orientation of material causes a tangible framework for illusion. In
time/space, the inequality is shifted to the property of time.
GLOSSARY 495
These space/time and time/space distinctions, as we understand them, do
not hold sway except in third density. However, fourth, fifth, and to
some extent, sixth densities, work within some system of polarized
space/time and time/space.
Note: Ra also uses the term “time/space” to indicate the passage of clock
and calendar time as we know it.
Spirit Complex – The fields of force and consciousness which are the
least distorted of the mind/body/spirit complex (but which can be
realized in many distorted and unintegrated ways by the mind and body
complexes of energy fields). When the intelligent energy of mind and
body are balanced, the spirit complex acts as a two-way channel, pathway,
shuttle or communicator whereby 1) the inpourings from the various
universal, planetary, and personal sources may be funneled into the roots
of consciousness, and 2) consciousness may be funneled to the gateway of
intelligent infinity. Healing is the realization and undistorted opening of
the mind and body to these spiritual instreamings.
The apparent addition of the spirit complex happens as second-density
entities (mind/body complexes) become self-aware, thus becoming
mind/body/spirit complexes and entering third density, the first density
of consciousness of spirit. This addition is apparent rather than real as it is
simply a realization of the spirit complex which was always available in
potentiation.
Spiritual Entropy – A type of loss of polarity and cohesion. This is
particularly experienced by negative social memory complexes due to
their tendency toward inability to act totally as one being, thus causing
them to experience constant disintegration of their social memory
complexes.
Tarot – A system of 22 images (The Major Arcana) first developed by Ra
during their third-density experience and later passed to the Egyptians by
Ra, it is used as a tool to study the archetypal mind and develop the
magical personality. Ra suggests that the Major Arcana not be used as a
method of divination but instead used as a means to study the archetypal
mind, and to gain knowledge of the self by the self for the purpose of
entering a more profoundly, acutely realized present moment.
496 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Thought Form – A pattern or persistence of thought that in some cases
can exhibit persistent metaphysical or physical characteristics separate
from the original thinker. Physical characteristics may include visual or
material beingness. Thought forms can be created by entities consciously
(typically higher-density beings) or unconsciously, particularly by the
collective unconscious mind.
Trance State/Channel – In the context of the Ra contact, the state in
which the instrument’s mind/body/spirit complex left the physical body
and allowed Ra to speak through it in a way supposedly undistorted by
the presence of the instrument’s own biases. In this state the instrument
was unconscious and awoke with no memory of the information which
was passed through her.
Transient Information – In the context of the Ra contact, information
that is of a specific nature and lacks metaphysical principle or relevance,
or is not directly related to the evolution of mind, body, and spirit. The
level and purity of the contact was dependent on the level and purity of
the information sought. Transient and specific information, especially if
emphasized, was deleterious to the working.
True Color – The frequency that is the basis of each density, every color
having specific vibratory characteristics both in space/time and in
time/space. It is the basic vibration of a density which is then overlaid and
tinged by the various vibratory levels within that density, and the
attraction to the vibrations of the next true color density.
Tuning – To bring into harmony, reminiscent of tuning a musical
instrument. Includes activities such as bringing the energy centers into a
harmonious balance or tuning of the self in order to match the vibration
of a contact for channeling.
Unconscious – A portion of the mind complex which is outside the
perception of the entity’s conscious awareness. It has various levels and
depths ranging from the personal mind to the cosmic mind, and may
contain a differing configuration, awareness, or will than the conscious
mind. The nature of the unconscious is of the nature of concept rather
than word. It corresponds to the female archetypal energy, is represented
by the archetype of the High Priestess, and is the Potentiator of
consciousness. Ra describes the nature of penetrating the veil to the 
GLOSSARY 497
unconscious mind as being “likened unto the journey too rich and exotic
to contemplate adequate describing thereof.”
Unmanifested Self – The self which does not need other-self in order to
manifest or act; that being which exists and does its work without
reference to or aid from other-selves. Meditation, contemplation, and
internal balancing of thoughts and reactions are those activities of the
unmanifested self, while things such as pain or disease are the catalyst of
the unmanifested self. In magic, one is working with one’s unmanifested
self in body, in mind, and in spirit; the mixture depending upon the
nature of the working.
Upward Spiraling Light – Commonly called “prana,” this light is the
ever-present energy of the Creator which radiates outward from all points
in space. The term “upward” is not an indication direction, but an
indication of the concept of that which reaches towards the source of love
and light (the Creator). It is through this light that we progress in
evolution towards the Creator, and it may be called upon and attracted by
use of the will to seek the light. Different geometric shapes, such as the
pyramid, can harness this light for various purposes.
Veil – An aspect of consciousness and experience that could be described
as the separation of the conscious and the unconscious mind, which also
results in a veiling of our awareness from the true nature of the Creator.
The veil exists as the result of an experiment of the early creations of the
sub-Logoi. This is referred to “extending free will” and resulted in such a
significant increase in free will that non-veiled entities were seen as not
having free will. Prior to this implementation, non-veiled entities
progressed along the path of spiritual evolution very slowly, the nonveiled condition being unconducive to polarization. The veiling was so
effective at increasing polarization that it was adopted by all subsequent
sub-Logoi. The conditions created by the veil resulted in what Ra refers
to as the Choice, the central purpose of third-density experience.
The veil is semi-permeable, and while progressive lifting of the veil is
third-density work, completely lifting the veil is not.
Vibration – A term used to refer to: densities or sub-densities; to sounds,
or speaking, or names; to state of mind; to channeling contact; an entity’s
overall beingness, or pattern of behavior, or pattern of distortions, or 
498 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
progress of spiritual evolution, or thought-processes; the metaphysical
state of a place; the metaphysical state of a planet and the peoples on the
planet; vibration or movement in physics, particularly Dewey Larson’s
Reciprocal Theory. Ra indicates that everything which is manifest is a
vibration, beginning with the photon itself.
Vibratory Sound Complex (Sound Vibration Complex) –
Occasionally used by Ra as a term for “word,” often used when referring
to names.
Vital Energy – The complex of energy levels of mind, body, and spirit.
Unlike physical energy, it requires the integrated complexes vibrating in
an useful manner. It may be seen to be that deep love of life and the
appreciation of other-selves and of beauty. Without this vital energy, the
least distorted physical complex will fail and perish. With this love, or
vital energy or élan, the entity may continue though the physical complex
is greatly distorted. Vital energy may be used, or reserved, depleted or
increased.
Wanderer (Brothers and Sisters of Sorrow) – Entities from the
fourth, fifth, and sixth densities who respond to a calling of sorrow by
incarnating into a third-density environment in order to be of service to
others by radiating love of others. In performing this service, the
wanderer becomes completely the creature of third density, and thus is
subject to the forgetting which can only be penetrated with disciplined
meditation and working. This decision carries the risk the wanderer will
forget its mission and become karmically involved, thus needing to
continue reincarnating within third density in order to balance the karma.
White Magic – Magic in general being ritual dedicated to working with
the unmanifested being, white magic is directing this working toward
experiencing the love and joy of union with the Creator for the purpose
of service to others. This love or joy then may be both protection and the
key to the gateway to intelligent infinity and will radiate throughout the
life experience of the positive adept. White magic is best undertaken in a
group, but it may be performed by an individual so long as it is done in
the knowledge that to aid the self in polarization towards love and light is
to aid the planetary vibration.
Will – Pure desire; the motivation, or impetus within an individual that 
GLOSSARY 499
becomes awakened and harnessed when directed towards service and
spiritual seeking. Will could also be seen as the attraction to the upward
spiraling line of light guiding spiritual evolution. It is the single measure
of the rate and fastidiousness of the activation and balancing of the
various energy centers. The will can be conscious or unconscious, the
unconscious utilization of will possibly depolarizing the individual in
their seeking. The faculty of will has been greatly enhanced by the veiling.
In conjunction with faith, the seeker’s will is a vital aspect of many
aspects of service and seeking, from the simple utilization of catalyst for
evolution to the opening of gateway to intelligent infinity.
Work – A term that generally refers to action, experience, or service done
in a spiritually significant and effective sense. Such work requires polarity
in consciousness, thus it is done far more efficiently—with greater purity,
intensity, and variety—when an entity continuously makes the Choice,
polarizing in either service to others or service to self. Examples can range
from the subtle work of mental balancing to the great work of offering
one’s life in service as a healer.
Glossary created by Austin Bridges and Gary Bean.
These definitions are not intended to be final or authoritative.
For a more in-depth examination of these terms, see the Concept Guide in the
Resource Series.
NOTES ABOUT THE INDEX
The following index is uniquely designed to enable an in-depth study of
The Ra Contact material, and as such it departs from standard index
formats in several ways.
• The reference numbers point to the particular session and question
number in which the relevant information can be found rather than
the page number.
• The entries are listed in alphabetical order, though some of the subentries are ordered based on their conceptual context presented in
the material. (For instance, energy centers are listed from Red, to
Orange, to Yellow, etc. within the Energy Center entry.)
• The listed references are not limited only to Q&As where the term
was mentioned, but also Q&As that may not contain the term yet
speak to the concept.
• This particular index is specific to Volume 1 of The Ra Contact,
containing only references to the sessions contained within these
pages. Volume 2 includes a similarly split index. Any entry with
references contained only in the other volume is still included with a
pointer to that volume. A complete and unified index listing
references to all 106 sessions of the Ra contact is available as an
independent booklet.
This index is as comprehensive as possible within the capabilities of the
many individuals who have contributed to its creation and refinement. It
contains 590 total terms (including primary, secondary, and tertiary), 81
alternative wordings, 114 “see also” associated terms, and 60 “see”
references, with over 9,000 total Q&A listings. As comprehensive as it is,
this index should be considered a constant work in progress and will
receive subsequent updates in future editions.
Along with the volunteers, we discovered that reading every Q&A for a
given term is one of the richest ways to deepen one’s study of this
material. We hope you find this index a useful tool in your own study of
the many and varied topics discussed within the material.
INDEX
Activate
3.8 34.9 47.10-15
17.39 34.10 48.7
21.9 34.16 50.12
23.7 35.1 51.9-10
27.13 35.3 52.11
28.1 38.5 53.8
30.5 39.10 54.5-6
31.3 40.4 54.15
32.6 41.16-19 54.31-32
32.14 42.11
Acupuncture
49.5
Adept
3.16 47.8 51.8
11.11 48.10 54.14-18
13.23 49.8 54.31
39.10 50.8-9
42.16 50.13
Cycle of the Adept
See Volume 2
Rituals of the Adept
See Volume 2
Services of the Adept
49.8 50.8-9
Tools of the Adept
3.16 49.8 50.8-9
Aging
14.10 15.4-5 15.8
Akashic Records
Hall of Records
14.32
Akhenaten
Ikhnaton
2.2 23.6 23.12-13
Allergy
12.30
Allopathic Healing
See “Healing, Allopathic”
American Indians
10.15
Anak
18.20 24.9
Angels
11.25 48.8 51.1
19.7
See also “Guides”
Anger
40.9 46.5-7 54.22
40.12 46.9-11
Ankh
Crux Ansata
55.14
Archetypes
See Volume 2
Archetypical Mind
See “Mind, Archetypal”
Ark of the Covenant
See Volume 2
Armageddon
24.6
Armor of Light
16.59 25.4 46.2
Astral Body
47.8
See also “Body Complex, Green Ray”
502 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Astrology
19.20-21
Astronomy
See “Sciences, Astronomy”
Atlantis
10.1 22.20-21 24.4
10.15 22.27 27.1
14.4 23.1 45.4
21.28 23.6
Attract
16.54 31.7 49.6
26.12 37.8 50.2-5
26.36 38.2 51.1
28.14 40.3 54.31
29.18 40.6
30.10 41.10
Aura
Aura Infringement
1.0 31.10 39.3
2.3 33.19 48.2
30.17 34.10 55.16
31.8 38.5
Awakening
30.5 48.7 53.17
31.9 53.8
36.24 53.12
Balance
Balancing
General
3.1 16.5-7 31.7
4.17 21.20 33.7
7.9 22.26 34.4
14.6-11 25.6 36.7
14.20 26.20 38.10
15.4 26.27 52.7
15.8-9 26.30-31 52.9
16.2 29.29
Balancing Exercises & Energy Centers
2.3 36.3 44.14
3.1 38.5 46.8-9
5.2 38.9-10 48.7
6.1 39.10 49.6
12.31 40.4 51.7
15.8-9 41.14 52.11
15.12-13 41.18-19 54.8
18.5 41.23-24 54.15-16
18.11 42.2-6 54.23-27
29.23 42.9-11 54.32
29.27 43.8
Balance of the Body
5.2 12.31 51.5
Balance of the Spirit
6.1
Ball Lightning
53.23
Banishing Ritual of the Lesser
Pentagram
41.2
Battle Beyond the Stars (movie)
23.19
Beingness
3.13 19.3 31.15
3.18 19.13 32.10
7.2 25.4 34.3
7.17 26.36 37.8
8.1 26.38 39.10
9.2 27.2 41.5
10.9-10 27.6 42.20
11.17 28.6 44.8
12.15 29.10-11 47.8
12.21 29.27 48.2
13.17 29.32 50.7
13.22 30.2 54.15
15.1 31.3
Bermuda Triangle
See Volume 2
INDEX 503
Bible
2.6 3.4 26.5
3.2
Bid
53.16 55.3-7
Bigfoot
9.18 9.21-22 10.4-5
Biology
See “Sciences, Biology”
Biorhythm
See Volume 2
Birth Defects
34.8
Black Hole
29.18-19 40.1
Body Complex
Physical Complex
2.3 19.13 41.12
3.16 19.20 41.21
3.8 20.3 43.22
4.17-18 23.7 46.9
5.2 26.13 47.8-10
6.4 29.19 48.2
10.14 30.2-3 48.10
11.30 30.5 49.5
14.18 31.6 51.5
15.4 31.15 54.6
15.8 36.8 54.17
18.15 39.1 54.27
18.20 40.9 56.1
18.27 40.12
19.9-11 40.14
Red Ray Body Complex
3.8 47.8
Orange Ray Body Complex
3.8 47.8 47.14
Yellow Ray Body Complex
3.4 47.8 47.13-15
3.8 47.10 48.10
Green Ray Body Complex
3.8 47.11 54.6
47.8
See also “Astral Body”
Blue Ray Body Complex
3.8 47.8 54.6
12.5 51.2
See also “Devachanic Body”
Indigo Ray Body Complex
3.8 47.15 54.6
47.8 48.7
47.11 51.10
See also “Etheric Body”
Violet Ray Body Complex
3.8 48.7 54.6
47.8 48.10
See also “Buddha Body”
Body Relationship with Mind and Spirit
6.1 40.14 51.5
19.20 47.8
32.10 48.2
Sacramental portion of the Body
4.18 31.3 49.2
26.38 32.6
Balancing (and knowledge) of the Body
See “Balancing, of the Body”
Brain
49.2-4 50.11 52.2
Brothers and Sisters of Sorrow
12.26 52.9 55.7
23.10
See also “Wanderers”
See also “Confederation of Planets”
Buddha Body
47.8
See also “Body Complex, Violet Ray”
504 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Calling
1.0 14.18 23.6
4.8 14.24 23.8
7.1-9 21.14-16 24.8
8.12 21.18-20 26.34
10.12-13 22.17 27.1
11.18 22.19 43.28-29
12.26 22.25 55.4
14.2 23.1 55.7
See also “Law of Squares”
Cancer
40.9 46.7-8 46.14-16
40.12-13 46.10-11
Cassiopeia
11.12
Catalyst
4.20 33.14-17 46.7
5.1 34.6-7 46.9
17.2 34.9 46.14-16
17.18 34.12-15 47.6
19.3 36.2 48.6-8
19.12-13 36.17 49.4-6
22.5-6 40.12 50.2-5
28.1-2 40.15 52.9
28.5 41.22 54.14-24
28.13 42.2 54.24
29.30 42.9-10 54.28
33.6-9 43.9
33.12 43.18
Catalyst (Archetype)
See “Archetype, Catalyst” (Vol. 2)
Cats, (our)
30.13 46.2
Cattle Mutilations
16.43 42.21 48.5
16.46 43.5
Cayce, Edgar
14.31-32 27.1
Celibacy
22.23
Cepheus
See Volume 2
Chakra
See “Energy Center”
Chaldea
See Volume 2
Challenging of Spirits
See Volume 2
Channel, Trance
Narrow Band
1.0 13.13 27.1
1.10-11 14.25 30.17
1.13 14.32 33.2
2.0 17.14 35.8
2.4 17.22 36.21
2.6 18.3 37.4
3.15 18.14 38.1
5.1 19.22 44.8
6.1 22.1-2 48.6
6.3 22.19 55.7
7.10 22.27
12.15 26.36
See also “Ra Contact Methodology”
Children
16.10 42.12
China
21.28
Choice, The
16.7 19.15-18 36.12
16.11 20.10-11 50.7
17.33 30.1
See also “Polarity (in Consciousness)”
Choice, The (Archetype)
See “Archetypes, The Choice” (Vol. 2)
INDEX 505
Christianity
See Volume 2
Cleanliness
See Volume 2
Cleansing Ritual
41.1
Colors
1.7 40.11 47.8
27.17 40.15 48.7
28.2 41.14 48.10
32.12-13 41.19 49.6
33.3 41.25 51.5
33.20 42.13 54.5-6
38.5 43.8 54.8
40.3 44.14 54.11-12
40.5-6 47.3 56.5-6
Compassion
Loving, Green Ray Love, Unconditional
Love, Universal Love, Vibration of Love
1.5 23.6 42.2
4.6 25.5-6 42.6-7
4.17 27.13 42.20
15.12 32.9 43.14-15
16.50 33.8 44.10
17.30 33.11 47.5
18.5-6 33.20 48.6
18.11 34.17 52.9
22.6 41.25-26 54.17
Complex
Body Complex
See “Body Complex”
Consciousness Complex
6.24 21.9 28.19
9.18
Mind Complex
See “Mind Complex”
Mind/Body/Spirit Complex
See “Mind/Body/Spirit Complex”
Physical Complex
See “Body Complex”
Social Complex
10.1 16.6 21.28
10.7 16.10 22.6
10.12 17.1 22.22
10.15 18.6 23.1
11.16-17 18.8 31.4
13.23 18.21 45.1
14.4 19.11 52.2
14.6 19.14
Social Memory Complex
See “Social Memory Complex”
Sound Vibration Complex
See “Sound Vibration Complex”
Spirit Complex
See “Spirit Complex”
Concept
24.19 34.4 40.1
27.4 35.8 40.15
Conditioning
1.0
Confederation of Planets
1.0-1 12.9 19.7
2.2 12.11 20.26-28
2.4 12.15 21.5
6.24-25 12.18 21.14-20
7.1 14.13 21.17
7.6-9 14.18 22.11-12
7.12 14.28-29 22.16-21
7.15 16.8 22.11-12
8.1 16.13 24.4
8.6 16.19 25.4-10
8.12 16.22 26.20-22
8.30-31 16.32-35 26.32
10.1 17.0-9 26.36
10.12 17.11 27.1
11.21 17.22 29.3
11.25 18.13 31.12
12.3 18.23 37.5
12.5 19.5-7 (Cont. …)
506 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
(… Cont.) 44.8 53.6
38.1 51.1 53.9
41.26 53.3 53.12-18
See also “Brothers and Sisters of Sorrow”
See also “Wanderers”
Consciousness
See “Complex, Consciousness”
Consonant with the Law of One
6.14 18.5 42.10
7.9 18.8 52.7
Contemplation
See “Prayer or Contemplation”
Control
Manipulate
11.15 32.2 52.7
11.18 46.9-12 53.14
11.20-21 46.16 54.19
12.2 48.6 54.25
Cosmic Mind
See “Mind, Cosmic”
Council of Saturn
6.7-8 14.28-30 26.32
7.8-10 22.17 39.9
7.12 23.6 53.3
8.1 23.16
9.4 24.4
Crowley, Aleister
18.10-11
Crucifixion of Esmerelda Sweetwater
(book)
See Volume 2
Crux Ansata
See “Ankh”
Crystallization
Crystallize, Crystalline
2.1 3.6 29.23
2.3 28.2 (Cont. …)
(… Cont.) 34.10 49.8
29.27 39.12 51.7-8
29.30 47.7 56.3
Crystals
2.3 22.21 29.31
6.21 29.24
14.7 29.27-28
Crystal Healing
See “Healing, Crystals”
D’Obrenovic, Michel
See “Williamson, George Hunt”
Darkness
7.15 19.17 35.8
11.26-28 21.9 40.1
13.16 25.6
Daydream
See “Fantasy”
Death
17.20 33.9 47.11-15
23.12 33.11 48.7
26.25-28 34.6 51.6
30.3-4 34.18 51.10
31.14 47.9 53.3
Deconsecration of a Sacred Place
See Volume 2
Deep Mind
See “Unconscious”
Defense, Magical
See “Magical Defense”
Deleterious Energy Exchange
See Volume 2
Deneb
10.15 21.28
INDEX 507
Density
See also “Dimension”
See also “Sub-Density”
6.14-15 17.41 40.3-6
7.15-16 18.5-7 40.5-6
9.4 19.12 41.7-8
11.3 26.24 41.15-18
13.8 27.16-17 41.26
13.13 28.4 43.22
13.20-23 28.13-16 45.7
15.25 29.2 45.11
16.2 29.13-14 47.3-6
16.21-30 29.32 48.1
16.33 30.2 48.10
16.38 32.8-9 51.2
16.51 32.12 52.3-7
16.53 36.1 52.12
17.1 39.4 54.4
17.18 40.1
First Density
11.4 28.15 41.7-8
13.15-18 29.11 41.10
16.21 30.5
28.6 40.3
Second Density
9.14-15 19.5-9 34.7
9.17-19 19.13-15 38.8
10.3-4 20.1-4 40.3
10.15 20.18 41.10
13.17-21 20.20 41.14-18
13.21 30.5-7 41.17
14.1-3 30.9-10 46.2
16.21 30.12-13 53.14
19.2-3 31.4
Third Density
See “Third Density”
Fourth Density
6.14-19 13.20 16.39-40
11.3 13.22-23 16.50
11.5-6 14.17 17.1-2
11.8-16 15.20 17.15
11.12 16.11-12 17.18
12.16-17 16.21 17.22-24
12.28 16.32 (Cont. …)
(… Cont.) 35.6-8 43.26
17.34 36.1 45.11
20.8 38.7 47.2-6
20.27-28 38.14 47.3
20.36 40.8-11 47.6
25.9-10 40.9 48.6
26.12 40.12 50.7-9
26.34 40.15 50.9
27.13 41.4 51.2
29.19-20 41.16 52.3-7
32.8-9 42.6-7 52.5
33.9-12 43.9-14 53.18
33.19-20 43.16-19
34.16 43.25-29
Fifth Density
6.6 33.20 43.23
13.20 36.1 45.11
16.21 36.12 47.3
16.41 41.4 48.6
17.11-21 41.16 51.2
25.9-11 42.6-7 52.3-7
29.28 43.14 52.4
32.8-9 43.20-29 53.19-20
Sixth Density
1.1 32.11 43.14-15
6.4-7 33.20 43.15
6.6 36.1 43.24-27
6.23 36.7-17 45.4
8.20 36.8 45.11
12.28 36.12 48.6
13.20 36.15-16 51.2
14.19-21 36.22 52.3-7
16.21-22 37.6 52.9
25.9-10 41.4-6
32.8-9 41.16
Seventh Density
13.20 36.1 41.4
14.19 36.8-9 41.16
16.21-23 37.6
32.8 39.4
Eighth Density
6.8 16.32 40.1
14.32 28.15 51.1
16.21 36.8 52.12
508 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Devachanic Body
47.8
See also “Body Complex, Blue Ray”
Devachanic Planes
17.36-37
Diaspora
24.17 25.4
Diet
40.14 41.22 42.12
Dimension
3.8 10.16 17.18
4.2 11.12 17.31
4.4-5 13.8 20.7
4.9 13.17 20.36
5.2 14.4 21.5
6.4 14.17 26.24
6.6-8 15.18 27.2
6.13 16.2 36.1
6.15-16 16.5 36.3
6.18 16.22 40.1
6.24-25 16.25 52.1
10.1 16.32 54.5
10.3 16.43
10.6 17.1
See also “Density”
Dinosaur
30.6-8
Disciplines of the Body
3.16 5.2 41.21-22
4.17-18
Disciplines of the Mind
3.16 41.21-22 52.2
4.17 44.10
5.2 46.9
Disciplines of the Personality
4.8 51.2 54.8
11.20 52.1-7 54.15-16
42.2 52.11
Disciplines of the Spirit
4.17-19 41.21-22 52.3
6.1 42.12 52.11
Disease
23.13-15 40.15 45.2
34.7
Distortion
1.1 15.9 40.12
1.5 15.21 43.13
1.7 17.33 44.13
1.10 18.6 46.2
3.4 18.22 46.12
4.9 20.32 47.2
4.19 21.3 48.2
8.31 22.6 51.6
9.9 22.19 54.8
10.10 27.7 54.22
11.17 29.25-27 54.28
13.12 31.7-8 54.32
14.10 34.12 55.2
Primal Distortion
3.14 13.12 19.21
4.20 14.10 21.14
7.15 14.18 22.27
9.10 14.28 27.12
10.12 15.21 56.3
11.20 18.5-6
13.8 19.12
First Distortion
Finity, Free Will, Awareness
2.2 13.6-8 18.20
3.14 13.12-13 18.24
4.20 13.16 19.12
6.26 15.13 19.16-17
7.1 15.20-21 20.11
7.12 15.25 20.26
7.17 16.1-9 20.32
8.1 16.27 21.4
9.9 16.30 21.8-9
10.12 17.1 21.14
11.18-19 18.1 21.18-20
12.5 18.5-6 (Cont. …)
INDEX 509
(… Cont.) 30.7 43.29-31
22.2 30.11 47.2
22.17 31.6 47.16
24.8 31.15 48.8
25.1 33.1-2 51.9-10
26.13 33.9 53.3
26.36 36.7 53.7
27.5 36.12 54.3
27.8-10 36.20 54.7
27.12-13 38.1 54.11
28.1 39.6-7 54.13-14
28.6 40.1 54.18
28.13 41.4 54.27
29.10 41.25 55.4
29.31 42.3
See also “Law of Confusion”
Second Distortion
Logos, Love, Co-creator, Primal Co-creator,
Creative Principle
9.10 28.5-11 41.25
13.7-9 28.20 46.14
13.13 29.2-13 47.2
13.15-16 29.32 51.10
14.10 30.1 52.2
15.9 30.14-15 52.11-12
15.21-22 39.4 54.4-5
18.6 40.1 54.7-10
19.12 41.4 54.17
27.11-17 41.7-8 54.27
27.17 41.12
28.1-3 41.18
Third Distortion
Light, Photon
6.14 27.16-17 40.5
12.5 28.2-5 40.9
13.9 28.7-8 41.9
13.16-17 29.12 47.8
15.4 29.16 52.11-12
15.9 32.12 54.4
15.21 39.6 54.10
17.18 40.1 54.27
27.13-14 40.3 56.3
See also “Light, Downward Spiraling”
See also “Light, Upward Spiraling”
See also “Prana”
Divination
See Volume 2
Doubling
7.2-5 11.11 37.7
7.7 22.27 39.1
10.13-14 26.40
See also “Law of Squares”
Downward Spiraling Light
See “Light, Downward Spiraling”
Dreaming
14.25-26 44.10-11 46.2
Dual Activated
Bodies, Individuals
17.1
Earth Changes
1.9 24.4 33.12
17.1
See also “Harvest”
Earth’s Population
6.13 20.18-22 47.15
10.6 21.11
Easter Island, Heads of
20.30-35 20.37
Ectoplasm
47.8
Eden
See Volume 2
Ego
15.10-12 18.5
Egypt
1.3 22.21-22 24.4
1.5 23.1-2 24.6
2.2 23.6 27.1
14.4-5 23.8 51.4
14.26 23.13-14 51.6
510 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Egyptian Tarot
See Volume 2
Einstein, Albert
17.8-9 26.20 39.4
Eisenhower, Dwight D.
24.19 26.33
Elder Race
15.15 15.17-20
Electricity
19.19-20 31.2 49.4
20.9 38.12 55.16
25.5 39.4
28.18-19 48.2
Elemental
16.43-46 17.37
Elements
Fire, Wind, Water, Earth
1.12-13 13.16 29.33
6.1 13.18 49.5
6.7 15.12 54.27
9.5 20.42
Energy Center
15.7 41.14 49.5-6
15.9 41.16 50.2
15.12 41.18-19 50.12
17.39 42.9-11 51.5
21.9 42.20 51.7-8
32.12-14 43.5 54.8-9
35.1 43.8 54.14-17
38.5 44.14 54.25-32
39.10 47.4 55.16
39.12 47.8 56.3
40.4 48.7
41.8-9 48.10
Energy Center Blockage
31.9 38.5 51.5
31.14-15 41.25 51.7
32.2 50.2 54.11-12
32.14 50.12 (Cont. …)
(…Cont.) 54.31-32 56.3
54.14-15
Primary Energy Centers
39.10 41.25 49.5
40.4 47.3
41.19 48.7
Red Ray Energy Center
15.12 41.25 54.17
26.38 46.9 54.25
31.4-5 47.8 54.27
34.15-16 50.2
39.10-11 51.8
Orange Ray Energy Center
15.12 34.9 47.8
26.38 34.12 47.14
31.5 34.16 49.6
31.14 41.10 51.8
32.2 41.13-14 54.17
32.14 41.25 54.25
Yellow Ray Energy Center
15.12 34.12 47.10
26.38 34.16 47.13-14
31.5 39.10 49.5-6
32.2 41.14-15 51.8
32.14 41.25 54.17
34.9-10 47.8 54.25
Green Ray Energy Center
12.31 32.14 47.8
15.12 34.9-10 47.11
21.9 34.12-15 48.7
26.38 34.17 49.6
31.3 39.10 50.8
31.5 41.16 51.8
31.10 41.25 54.17
32.3 42.7 54.25
32.5 47.3-4 54.31
Blue Ray Energy Center
15.12 41.25 49.6
26.38 47.3-4 51.8
32.5 47.8 54.17
32.14 48.7 54.25
39.10 48.10 54.31
INDEX 511
Indigo Ray Energy Center
11.8 47.4 51.8
15.12 48.7 54.17
26.38 49.2 54.25
32.5-6 49.6 54.31-32
32.14 50.13
Violet Ray Energy Center
11.8 33.19 49.2
12.31 34.15-16 49.6
14.14 38.5 50.12-13
15.12 39.10 51.1
19.20 41.19 51.8
26.38 47.8 54.27
29.27-30 48.7 54.30-31
32.7 48.10
Eighth Energy Center
11.8 14.32 34.2
Energy Transfer
General
31.2 39.10 54.31
32.5 54.25 55.8
Sexual Energy Transfer
25.1 31.11-15 48.2
26.38 32.2 54.25
30.10 32.5-10 54.31
31.2-7 39.10
31.9 44.1
Enlightenment
Illumination
1.10 17.2 48.5
2.1 17.37 49.4
4.8 18.5 52.7
15.13 23.10
Error
Mistake, Misstep, Incorrect
4.13 17.17 32.9
8.6 18.1 34.5
12.24 18.23 44.17
14.34 23.16 53.16
17.0 32.1
17.12 32.4
Error in Transmission
17.0 18.1 32.3-4
17.12
Etheric Body
47.8 47.15 48.7
47.11
See also “Body Complex, Indigo Ray”
Evolution
Physical Evolution
See “Sciences, Evolution”
Evolution of Spirit
28.13-14 37.3 47.2
30.1 39.10 48.8
30.5 40.3 50.5
30.7 41.4 51.5
30.14 41.10 52.2
36.15 41.18 52.11
36.17 45.11 54.24
Exercise, Physical (for the
Instrument)
18.27 34.1 53.1
25.2 39.2
Experience (Archetype)
See “Archetype, Experience” (Vol. 2)
Faith
3.9 41.22 54.24
16.18 42.12 54.31
27.4 46.9
See also “Intelligent Infinity”
Fantasy
16.54-57
Fasting
40.14 41.21-22 42.12
Faults
See Volume 2
Female/Male
5.2 31.7-10 54.3
26.38
512 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Food
4.22 21.12-13 42.7-8
18.4 23.14 43.17-24
18.27 25.2
19.22 40.14
Forgetting, The
See “Veil of Forgetting”
Forgiveness
17.20 34.4-5 41.25
18.12 34.17 50.7
26.30 40.13 52.7
Form-maker Body
47.11 48.7 51.10
See also “Body, Indigo Ray”
Franklin, Benjamin
26.15-16
Free Will
See “Distortion, First”
Frontal Lobes (of the brain)
49.2-4 52.5
Frye, Daniel
8.30
Fusion
32.9-10 41.4-5
Games
19.17 34.12 50.7
Garlic
See Volume 2
Gateway to Intelligent Infinity
See “Intelligent Infinity, Gateway to”
Genghis Khan
11.9-15 17.25
Ghosts (Lingering Spirits)
47.12-14
Gnosticism
51.6
Goering, Hermann
35.5
Golden Dawn
42.17-18
Graduation
10.4 20.18 38.14
10.9 30.5 40.4
11.6 34.16 41.26
19.5 36.12 47.5-6
20.3 38.6 52.12
See also “Harvest”
Gravity
20.7 37.8 52.2-5
29.15-22 40.1
Great Pyramid at Giza
3.6 4.6 51.6
3.12 23.6 55.11-16
3.15 23.8 56.3-6
See also “Pyramids”
Great Record of Creation
See Volume 2
Great Way (Archetype)
See “Archetype, Great Way” (Vol. 2)
Great Work
6.1 48.6 52.2
Greeting, Psychic
See “Psychic Greeting”
Guardians
7.9 20.28 50.5
9.6-9 21.8 51.1
9.18 21.14 52.12
12.3-5 24.4 54.10
16.1 30.14
16.5-6 48.8
See also “Protection”
INDEX 513
Guides
Guidance System
12.14 18.8-9 54.3
14.18 36.12
See also “Angels”
Hair
19.9 20.6 49.5
19.13
Hall of Records
See “Akashic Records”
Harmony
1.1 29.30 42.2
2.0 30.14 42.7
4.13 32.8-9 43.11
7.9 33.1-2 47.6
7.14-15 36.1 47.15
15.24-25 36.17 48.6-7
16.5 36.21-22 49.9
17.18 37.3 50.7
18.6 38.1 53.2
18.11 38.6 54.6
20.13 38.9 54.15-16
22.3 40.4 54.32
29.9-10 41.26 55.7
Harvest
1.9 13.22-23 19.1-11
6.11 14.4 20.1-2
6.13-15 14.14-20 20.20
6.19 15.14-20 20.27-29
7.16-17 16.11 21.13-14
8.2 16.13 21.28
8.6 16.39-41 22.7-16
8.25 16.61 24.8
10.9 17.1 26.12
11.3 17.15 26.28
11.6 17.22-25 26.34
11.8 17.29 33.12-13
11.19 17.31-34 34.2
12.27-28 17.41-43 (Cont. …)
(… Cont.) 43.25 51.1
34.15-18 45.7 52.8-9
35.4-5 46.2 52.12
40.7-11 47.3-8 53.16
41.19 48.6-8 54.18
42.6 49.6 55.3-4
43.8 50.5
43.13-15 50.8
See also “Earth Changes”
Harvestable
17.15 38.14 47.8
21.28 40.4 48.7
30.13 41.19 49.6
34.16-17 47.3 50.8
35.4 47.6 54.18
Hawk
23.1
Healing
2.2-4 18.10-11 34.10
3.14-15 21.3 35.8
4.5-20 21.5 36.2
5.1-2 21.7 38.5
6.1 21.9 39.10
9.3 22.6 40.12-14
10.9 22.21-23 41.21
11.7 22.28 47.8
12.31 23.6-7 48.7
14.4 23.12 50.13
14.6 26.26-31 54.31
14.10-11 27.1 55.1
15.14 29.31 55.11-17
17.18 29.33 56.3-7
Allopathic Healing
See Volume 2
Crystal Healing
2.2-4 23.6 55.16-17
14.4 27.1 56.3
14.7 29.23-31
22.21-23 33.3-5
Healing Through Fasting
40.14 41.21-22
514 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Hebrew
See Volume 2
Heraclitus
25.4
Hickson, Charlie
8.15-22 38.10-11
Higher Self
35.3 41.22 51.1
36.1-15 42.12 54.3
36.22 44.12
37.6-7 48.8
See also “Guides”
See also “Protection”
Himmler, Heinrich
35.5 36.12-15
Hiroshima
26.23-31
See also “Nuclear Energy”
Hitler, Adolph
7.14 11.7 35.4-5
Hole (in spirit energy field)
6.1
Holograph
13.8 13.13 26.23
Holy Communion (Christian)
See Volume 2
Homosexuality
31.8-10
Honor/Duty
Honor/Responsibility
2.2 16.18 22.26
3.6 16.41-42 23.10
4.20 17.25 23.16
5.2 18.6-8 31.17
10.8 22.5 (Cont. …)
(… Cont.) 36.9 44.2
33.1 36.12 51.1
34.17 37.3 54.10
35.8 37.6 56.3
Horus
23.1
Humor
21.9 37.5 53.9
Hypnosis
See Volume 2
Ikhnaton
See “Akhenaten”
Illness
25.1
Imhotep
23.8-9
Impatience
5.2 34.6 45.2
In Potentiation
30.5 38.5 47.9-11
35.1 41.17 48.10
Incarnation
See “Reincarnation”
Industrial Revolution
11.29 26.13
Infinity/Infinite (adjective)
3.8-9 10.15-16 16.51
4.2 11.26 16.53
4.18 12.26 17.35
5.2 13.7-13 18.1
7.8 14.28 18.6
7.12 15.7 19.1
7.16 15.12 19.3
9.14 16.21 19.17
10.10 16.36 20.27
10.13 16.38 (Cont. …)
INDEX 515
(… Cont.) 29.18 37.8
26.36 30.14 39.10
27.15 31.3 41.4
28.7 32.12 51.2
28.13 33.17 52.12
28.16 37.6 54.9
Initiation
2.3-4 17.18 42.18-19
3.15-16 22.22 55.11
4.1-8 23.6 56.3
14.6 23.16 56.6-7
14.10 41.23-24
Inner Earth
See Volume 2
Inner Light
Inner Nature, Inward Fire, Polaris of Self,
Guiding Star
29.6 54.27 56.3
49.6 54.29
Inner Planes
6.11 17.1 25.6
7.9 17.36-39 26.22
10.1 18.10-11 26.25
11.7 20.26 43.7
12.14 21.5 47.8
14.30 21.7 47.15
16.44 23.6 51.1
16.48 25.4
Innocence
8.15 21.9 31.11
19.15 30.1 32.1
Insanity
35.4 36.24
Inspiration
14.25 26.38 49.8
17.2 38.2-4 52.2
22.21 42.13 54.31
23.10 42.15
Intelligent Energy
3.8 19.20 36.7
4.14 21.13 39.10
8.2 22.3 41.4
9.4 26.22 47.4
10.15 26.24 47.8
12.31 26.38 47.15
13.7-9 27.2 48.7
13.13-15 27.5-7 50.8
14.32 27.12 51.5
15.9 27.17 51.10
15.12 28.2 52.2-3
15.21 28.6 54.7-8
16.5 28.11 54.11
17.18 28.13 54.19
18.6 28.19 54.23
18.15 29.2 54.27
19.1 29.23-30 54.31
19.3 30.2
19.12 31.3
Intelligent Infinity
Infinity, One Infinite Creator, Unity
1.7 12.31 29.32
3.8-9 13.5-9 30.2
4.2 13.12-17 30.14
4.5 14.16 31.3
4.8 14.28 32.2
4.13-14 14.32 34.2
4.17-18 15.7 34.16
4.20 15.12 36.7
4.23 16.21 38.14
5.1-2 16.49 39.10
6.1 17.2 39.12
6.7 17.17-19 40.1
7.15 17.25 41.4
7.17 17.33 41.19
8.2 18.1 41.25
8.30 19.1 44.13
9.4 26.38 47.3-4
10.15 27.2-13 48.7
11.8 28.1-2 48.10
11.10 28.6 49.2
11.20 29.10 50.8-10
12.2 29.27 51.10
12.26 29.29-30 (Cont. …)
516 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
(… Cont.) 52.12 54.31-32
See also “Faith”
See also “One Infinite Creator”
Gateway to Intelligent Infinity
4.2 15.12 39.12
4.13 16.21 40.4
6.1 17.2 41.6
7.12 17.18 47.8
7.17 17.25 48.7
8.2 17.33 48.10
9.4 29.27-30 49.2
11.8 30.2 50.13
11.10-11 31.3 52.2
11.20 34.16 54.31-32
14.16 39.4
14.32 39.10
Negative Contact with Intelligent Infinity
11.8 38.14 47.3-4
34.16 39.12
Instrument, The
Dedication/Purity
21.1 44.7-8 46.6
22.1
Martyrdom
44.1
See also “Psychic Greeting”
See also “Ra Contact”
Intention
7.14 37.5 56.3
18.1 47.6
24.4 49.8
Intuition
19.11 30.2 49.4
19.13 37.3
26.38 38.4
Investment
Evolutionary Investment
13.12 14.1-2 46.2
13.21 30.13
Jefferson, Thomas
26.15-16
Jesus
of Nazareth, Jehoshua
17.10-12 17.16-22 33.11
“Second Coming”
17.22
Judaism
17.20
Judas Iscariot
17.17
Judgment
5.2 26.8 38.5
7.9 32.9 44.1
Ka
47.11
See also “Indigo Ray Body”
Karma
9.2 12.28-29 34.4-5
9.18 16.61 34.17
10.1 17.20 35.1
10.4 18.12 35.8
King, Martin Luther
34.10-11
Knot of Fear (Maldek)
10.1 10.7 21.5
Kundalini
11.10 42.11 52.11
17.39 49.5-6 54.27
34.2 50.2 54.29-31
42.9 52.7
Larson, Dewey B. (Physics of)
20.6 28.1 41.20
20.7 28.18
27.14 39.4
INDEX 517
Law of Confusion
Way of Confusion
3.14 16.9 27.10
11.19 20.26 36.19-20
16.1-2 21.9 48.4
16.6-7 26.36 54.13
See also “First Distortion”
Law of One
1.0-1 11.28 18.1
1.5 12.3 18.5-6
1.7 12.5 18.8
1.9 12.7 18.21
1.10 12.13 19.1
2.1-4 12.24-25 20.36
2.6 13.4 22.6
3.6 13.8 22.21
3.9 13.12 22.27
3.10 14.7-8 23.6
3.14 14.10-11 23.10
4.13-14 14.18 23.12
4.17 14.20 23.15
4.19-20 14.23-26 23.19
6.10 14.28 24.9
6.14 14.34 25.4
6.24-25 15.5-6 26.4-9
7.1 15.7 26.12
7.9 15.8 27.8
7.12 15.12 27.10
7.15 15.14 27.13
7.17 15.21-22 28.1
8.19 16.18-21 28.16
8.25 16.24 37.6
9.9-10 16.28-29 41.4
10.11-12 16.38-41 42.10
10.14 17.2 49.6
11.12 17.15 52.7
11.18 17.33 52.11
11.21 17.43
Law of Responsibility
20.17 23.15 34.17
22.5-6
Law of Squares
(Doubling/Empowerment)
Law of Service, Law of Seeking
7.1-7 17.2 26.40
7.9 17.30 29.29
10.12-14 18.13 37.77
11.11 22.25 39.1
14.18 22.27
15.6-7 24.8
See also “Calling”
Laws of Foreverness
3.10 27.10
Laws of Light
3.10 16.50
Laws of Love
3.10 14.10 22.21
9.10
Laws (Natural)
13.13 27.17 41.4
13.15-16 28.1 41.8
17.18 28.5 46.14
18.6 28.8 47.2
19.12 29.2 54.17
22.27 29.11
27.15 29.16
Learn/Teaching
1.10 17.25 41.7
2.1 17.38 42.2
3.6 17.43 42.8-9
4.10 20.24 42.20
5.2 20.26 43.26
6.1 22.5 46.14-15
9.3 26.13 48.7
14.10 27.1 52.9
15.13 28.6 52.11
15.22 32.5 56.4
16.48 39.10
See also “Teach/Learning”
518 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Lemuria
Mu
10.15 21.24-25 24.6
14.4 21.27-28
Lesser Banishing Ritual of the
Pentragram
See “Banishing Ritual of the Lesser
Pentagram”
Light
See also “Distortion, Third”
Downward Spiraling Light
Inner Light
4.5 12.31 54.29
4.18 49.5-6 54.31
6.1 54.27 56.3
Upward Spiraling Light
4.18 19.3 50.2
6.1 28.14 54.27
9.14 29.16 54.29
13.15 29.18 54.31
13.17 30.5 56.3-4
13.23 41.10 56.6-7
14.2 49.5-6
Light Touch
18.6 34.6 50.7
Light/Love
1.7 7.17 15.22
3.4 12.3 16.21
3.15 14.20 29.16
4.20 15.4 51.1
6.14 15.9 52.11
See also “Love/Light”
Lincoln, Abraham
26.15 35.6 35.8
26.17-19
Logos
13.7 18.6 28.6-7
13.16 19.12 28.9-11
15.21 28.1 (Cont. …)
(… Cont.) 30.15 41.25
28.13 39.4 47.2
28.18 41.4 51.10
28.20 41.8 52.12
29.2-5 41.12 54.4-5
29.13 41.18 54.9-10
Love
13.7 27.11-17 47.2
15.21 28.1-6 47.4
18.6 29.11-13 54.27
Local Sub-Logos
28.20 40.1 41.12
29.1 41.4 54.7
30.14 41.7 54.17
Milky Way (Galactic) Logos
13.15-16 28.18 30.15-16
15.21 29.2 41.7-8
19.12 29.4 52.12
28.8-10 29.32
Sub-Logos/Logoi
28.10-11 40.1 51.10
28.20 41.4 52.2
29.1-2 41.7 54.5
29.4-7 41.12 54.17
29.9 46.14 54.27
29.13 47.2
Logoic Bias
16.30-31 55.7
Local Sun Body (physical)
See “Solar System, Sun”
Love
See “Compassion” and “Distortion,
Second” and “Logos”
Love/Light
1.7 10.12 15.25
2.3 12.5 16.21
2.6 12.7 17.37
3.4 13.13 18.5-6
3.15 14.20 23.6
4.20 15.9 36.12
7.17 15.12 48.3
10.9 15.22 52.11
See also “Light/Love”
INDEX 519
LSD
6.1 19.22 26.40
18.3 25.1
Magic
11.11 25.5 50.8-9
12.14 31.3 50.13
16.54-57 42.13 55.2
12.14 42.16 55.6
18.5 42.17
22.2 49.8
White Magic
42.13-19 49.8 55.2
44.14-15
See also “Magical Defense”
Magical Defense/Protection
32.1 44.10 63.5
Magical Personality
See Volume 2
Magnetism
4.18 48.2 56.3
30.10 49.4-6
31.7 50.2
Major Cycle
6.14-15 20.27 22.14
9.4
Maldek
See “Solar System, Maldek”
Male/Female
5.2 31.7-8 54.3
26.38 31.10
Manhattan Project
11.23 26.20
Manipulate
See “Control”
Marijuana
19.22
Marriage
31.16 32.9
Mars
See “Solar System, Mars”
Martyrdom
42.6 44.1
Master Cycle
9.4 16.61 21.13
9.14 19.8 21.25
14.4 20.12 33.12
15.18 21.6-9
Masturbation
31.11
Matrix (Archetype)
See “Archetypes, Matrix” (Vol. 2)
Meditation
10.14 25.2 46.2
12.1 38.10 49.6-8
15.14 41.1 50.12
17.40 42.13-16 52.11
19.13 43.31 54.32
21.3 44.10
23.16 44.13
Memory
4.2 16.22 36.24
6.20 21.3 37.6
6.23 30.2 38.9
11.10 31.16 50.7
Men In Black
12.20-23
Mental Illness
40.15-16
Mesopotamia
See Volume 2
Metal-Bending
40.15 50.10
520 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Metaphor by Ra
19.17 54.6 54.16
50.7 54.8
Mind
Cosmic Mind
22.1 30.2 49.5
Archetypal (Archetypical) Mind
16.49 30.2 42.16
See also “Tarot”
Planetary Mind
Racial Mind, Mass Mind
2.4 10.8 40.8
3.10 14.32 40.11
5.2 30.2 41.14
7.16 31.16 43.5-6
10.6 38.9
See also “Akashic Record”
Roots/Trunk of the Mind
10.14 22.1 42.16
11.17 30.2 50.2
16.49 36.10 52.2
20.33 41.21
See also “Unconscious”
Unconscious/Subconscious Mind
See “Unconscious”
Mind Complex
Mind
3.1 19.20 40.14
3.16 19.22 41.21
4.17 20.33 46.2
5.2 22.1-2 46.9
6.1 23.7 46.12
10.3 26.13 49.4-5
10.8 30.2 49.8
10.14 30.4-5 51.5
11.17 31.15 52.2
16.48-49 32.10 53.11
18.19 35.8 56.1
19.11 36.10
19.13 39.1
Mind/Body
2.2 18.18-22 30.7
4.18 19.20 31.4
9.4 20.3 39.10
10.1 29.9 46.9
13.21 30.5
Mind/Body/Spirit Complex
1.7 18.6 41.21
3.8 18.15 43.14
3.16 19.7 43.30
4.9 19.20 46.2
4.10 20.24 47.8
6.1 20.32 48.2
8.16 21.9 48.7-10
10.6 26.23 49.5-6
10.9 26.38 50.2-3
11.8 28.13-14 50.9
11.10 29.7 51.1
11.17 29.10 51.4-6
12.10 29.23-27 51.8
12.31 30.2-5 51.10
13.21-22 30.7 52.2
15.9 31.2 52.11
15.10 32.7 54.3
15.12 33.8 54.5-9
15.14 34.8-9 54.11
16.59 36.1-2 54.13-17
17.1 36.4-9 54.24-25
17.15 36.11-12 54.27
17.18 37.6 54.30
17.30 40.12
17.38 41.14
Mind/Body/Spirit Complex Totality
9.2 36.4 50.7
10.9-10 36.8 51.1
12.10 36.10 51.8
16.22 36.12 51.10
34.8 37.6-7 52.9
35.3 47.11
36.1-2 48.8
Mind/Body/Spirits
32.5 47.2 50.7
36.21
INDEX 521
Mind/Spirit (Spirit/Mind)
15.12 35.8 47.8
17.38
Mixed Contacts
12.5-9 16.18-19 24.8-16
12.15 18.24 26.34
14.13 21.20 26.36
Money
11.28 23.15 34.10
22.5
Mu
See “Lemuria”
Muhammad
2.2
Mummies
See Volume 2
Mystery, The
1.10 18.1 28.16
13.13 22.21 52.11
16.21 27.7
16.27 28.1
See also “Intelligent Infinity”
See also “One Infinite Creator”
See also “Unity”
Third-Density Variety
3.14 7.12 24.9
6.25 17.2 26.21
Nagasaki
26.23-31
See also “Hiroshima”
See also “Nuclear Energy”
Narrow Band Channel
See “Channel, Trance”
Narrow Band Vibration
1.0 18.1 33.1
15.1-2 30.17
Natural Laws
See “Laws, Natural”
Nazca (Lines of)
20.39-43
Negative Contact with Intelligent
Infinity
See “Intelligent Infinity, Negative
Contact With”
Negative Path
Left-Hand Path
7.17 32.5 50.6
17.32-33 35.4-5 54.9
19.15 36.12-14 54.22-23
20.29 46.7-12 54.25
32.2 47.5 55.3-6
See also “Service to Self”
Ninety Degree Deflection (tesseract)
52.10
Nothingness
See “Plenum”
Nuclear Energy
Nuclear War, Nuclear Device
7.12 17.3-9 38.2-3
9.18-19 24.4
11.23 26.21-31
See also “Hiroshima”
Oahspe (book)
14.28 17.31
Octave
6.8 16.21 47.8
6.14 16.38 48.10
7.17 16.51 49.6
9.14 28.15-16 51.1
13.20 36.8 52.12
14.32 40.1 54.10
15.4 41.7-8
522 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
One Infinite Creator
26.36 39.2 55.7
29.10 43.13 56.3
30.5 49.2
One Creator
12.5 16.9 18.13
13.13 16.11 19.7
15.7 17.22 19.20
Infinity
1.7 13.5 29.18
3.8 13.6 39.4
6.25 16.37 52.12
7.12 16.54
10.13 22.12
Intelligent Infinity
3.9 13.7 31.3
4.2 13.8 32.2
4.5 13.9 34.2
4.8 13.12-17 34.16
4.13 14.16 36.7
4.14 14.32 38.14
4.17 15.12 39.10
4.20 16.49 39.12
5.1 17.2 40.1
5.2 17.17-19 40.4
6.1 17.25 41.4
6.7 17.33 41.19
7.15 26.38 41.25
7.17 27.2-8 44.13
8.2 27.10 47.3
8.30 27.12-13 47.4
9.4 28.1-2 48.7
10.15 28.6 48.1
11.8 29.10 49.2
11.10 29.27 50.8
11.20 29.29 50.9
12.2 29.30 51.10
12.26 29.32 54.31-32
12.31 30.2
Unity
1.1 3.10 7.9
1.5 6.7 15.4
1.7 7.2 (Cont. …)
(… Cont.) 27.12-13 46.13
15.7 27.15 47.2
15.25 28.1 47.8
16.21 28.16 48.6
18.1 29.19 50.5
22.21 30.1 52.11
25.5 32.6 53.9
27.5 36.12
27.7 36.15
One Original Thought
1.0 1.7 54.8
1.10 52.11-12
Orion
Orion Constellation
11.12 62.16
Orion Empire
Orion Group
7.12-15 16.15-19 25.10
8.12-14 16.57-61 26.19
11.12-13 17.0 26.33-34
11.18 17.16-17 31.12
11.21 18.20-22 31.15
11.31 18.24-25 38.14
12.2 20.29-35 43.7
12.9 21.21-23 48.6
12.14-15 24.6 51.2-3
12.18-22 24.8 53.10-11
14.13 24.11-14 53.14-17
16.2 24.16-17 53.22
16.8-10 25.1 55.4-6
16.13 25.4-6
Other-Self
5.2 20.26 32.9
12.13 20.36 33.9
14.5 25.1 33. 11
15.4 26.34 33. 14-17
16.5 26.38 34.5-6
17.2 30.10 36.15
17.3 30.5 38.5
18.5 31.3 40.13
18.6 32.1 41.4
18.12 32.5-7 41.14
19.5 32.7 (Cont. …)
INDEX 523
(… Cont.) 46.12 50.7
42.10 46.9 52.9
42.20 47.5 55.3
42.3-4 47.13-14 56.3
45.1 48.6-7
46.10 48.7
Oversoul (Group)
7.16 37.7 52.9
36.22
Parallel Existence
11.3 36.2-5
Paranormal Ability
6.1
Patton, General George
34.17 36.10
Perfect
4.20 30.5 47.7
10.15 36.7 51.5
12.31 38.5 52.7
15.8 42.4 52.9
19.20 42.15 55.6-7
Imperfect
4.20 8.10
Pericles
25.4
Personality
1.10 17.15 52.7
2.2 35.4 54.15
3.16 51.2
12.30 52.2-3
Magical
See “Magical Personality”
Peru
10.15
Pets
14.1 20.3
Philadelphia Experiment
26.20
Physics
See “Sciences, Physics”
Plane
17.38
Astral Plane (Green)
10.1 16.50 43.7
11.7 17.36-37 47.8
16.44 26.25
Devachanic Plane (Blue)
17.36-37 47.8
Etheric Plane (Indigo)
15.4 47.8 47.11
17.1
Earth Plane
15.20 20.34 25.4
18.7
Inner Plane
See “Inner Planes”
Planetary Consciousness
Planetary Entity
2.4 13.15-16 25.7-8
6.15 15.20 29.9-10
6.24-25 16.25 30.14
8.15 16.32 37.7
9.4 16.61 53.16
11.18 20.26
11.26-27 21.17
Planetary Healing
2.4 26.27-28 50.9
14.7 26.30-31
14.10 30.14
Planetary Sphere
Planetary Body
2.2 6.6 6.16
2.3 6.10 8.7
2.4 6.13 (Cont. …)
524 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
(… Cont.) 15.4 21.17
9.2 15.9 21.27
9.7 16.1 21.28
9.13 16.6 24.4
9.18 16.13 26.20
10.1 16.25 26.27-28
10.4 16.30 26.30-31
10.6-7 16.33 28.6
11.3 16.59 29.9-10
11.4 17.0 30.14
11.18 17.1 30.16
11.26 17.11 31.8
13.9 18.6 41.4
13.15 19.4 41.12
13.22-23 19.7 41.15
14.3 19.12 41.26
14.7 20.13 43.28
14.10 20.19 48.8
14.23 20.20 49.5
14.32 21.5
Planetary Vibration
Planetary Aura, Electromagnetic Field,
Energy Web
2.3 14.7 42.7
4.6 14.10 49.5
8.7 15.4 49.8
12.7 15.9 50.8-9
12.30 22.11
13.23 41.4
Planets (Inhabited)
16.24-25
Plenum
Nothingness
6.7
Polarity (in Consciousness)
8.12 17.23 25.5
12.25 17.33 26.34
16.6-9 19.15-19 26.38
16.15-20 20.9-11 27.1
16.59 20.17 28.18-19
17.1 20.26-27 29.10
17.16-17 22.5 29.33
17.19 25.1 (Cont. …)
(… Cont.) 35.4-5 46.16
30.1 35.8 47.4-6
31.2-4 36.11-12 48.6-8
31.7 36.14 49.3-4
31.12 36.16-17 49.8
31.14 38.9 50.6-9
32.1-2 38.14 52.7-9
32.14 41.14 53.16
33.8-9 42.7 54.19
33.11-12 42.9 54.22
34.10 42.18 55.3-4
34.14 44.15-16 55.7
34.17 46.7-12
35.1 46.14
See also “Service to Others”
See also “Service to Self”
Polarity (General)
1.1 24.8 32.10
1.5 25.4 36.18
1.7 25.6 39.4
2.2 27.6-7 39.11
4.10 28.18 45.10
4.20 29.32 49.5
5.2 26.38 52.6
8.7 31.2 53.3-4
10.1 31.7 53.10
11.20 32.8 53.24
19.16 31.10 54.13
19.20 31.13
20.29 32.10
Polarization
See “Polarity (in Consciousness)”
Positive Path
1.0 32.1-2 52.7
10.11-12 43.8 52.11
15.14 46.13 54.21
17.33 46.16 54.25
18.5 49.6 55.7
18.12 50.8-9
19.17 52.2
See also “Service to Others”
Possibility/Probability Vortex
See “Probability/Possibility Vortex”
INDEX 525
Potentiate
Potentiation
28.1 38.5 41.4
31.2 39.4 48.6-7
35.1 39.10 51.10
36.12 40.1 52.7
Potentiator (Archetype)
See “Archetypes, Potentiator” (Vol. 2)
Power
1.1 17.7 30.3
2.2 17.17 31.14
3.8-11 19.18 32.2
3.10 20.30 34.9
6.1 20.32 34.12
7.15 20.40-41 35.1
8.2 22.23 35.3
8.6 22.28 38.14
8.11 23.3 44.1
10.13-14 23.6 44.15
11.19-20 23.12 47.3
11.26 23.15 49.8
11.31 24.17 50.6
12.5 24.19 50.8-9
15.12 25.1 52.7
15.14 25.5-6 54.22
15.22 27.13 56.3
17.5 29.31
Prana
14.2 41.10 56.3
See also “Light, Upward Spiraling”
See also “Distortion, Third”
Prayer or Contemplation
10.14 21.3 49.6
12.1 22.2 49.8
15.14 42.6
Pre-incarnative choices
See “Reincarnation, Pre-incarnative
choices”
Pre-veil
See “Veil of Forgetting, Pre-veil”
Primal Distortion
See “Distortion, Primal”
Primary Energy Center
See “Energy Center, Primary”
Probability/Possibility Vortex
Possibility/Probability Vortex
11.3 17.5 40.8
11.6 19.21 43.25
16.53-54 33.12 50.5
16.56 36.2-4 56.3
Probert, Mark
7.10-11
Programming, Incarnational
8.21 34.5 41.22
10.1 34.8 42.12
17.1 34.17 48.7-9
17.11 35.1 50.4-5
21.9-11 35.3 54.19
23.12 36.1-2 54.21-24
31.6 36.4 55.1
33.6-7 36.6-7
33.9 36.10
Prophecy
See Volume 2
See also “Divination”
Protection
19.9 33.11 45.11
32.1 36.21 46.2
33.1-2 44.10
See also “Guardians”
See also “Higher Self”
See also “Psychic Greeting/Attack”
Protection of the Ra contact
See “Ra Contact, Methodology”
Those Who Offer Protection
6.7 30.14 50.5
Violet-Ray Shell Protection
See Volume 2
526 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Psychic Greeting/Attack
25.1 53.1 56.1
44.10-11 53.22
46.1-2 55.1-2
See also “Protection”
Psychic Sensitivity
44.3-6 44.10-12
Puharich, Dr. Andrija
7.10-11 21.3-4 39.6-9
12.1 23.11
12.10 39.4
Purity
4.8 25.6 39.1
10.9 26.36 40.4
12.28 29.27 41.19
17.11 30.4 41.21
21.17 37.4 55.5-7
23.7 38.5
Pyramids
2.2 14.4 23.10
3.6-8 14.6-11 27.1-2
3.10-16 22.21 45.4
4.1-8 23.6-8
See also “Great Pyramid at Giza”
See also “Metaphysics of the Pyramids”
essay in the Resource Series
Angles
55.15 56.4
Caution
4.6 4.8 56.3
Chamber: King
55.11-12 56.3 56.5-6
55.16-17
Chamber: Queen
55.10-11 56.3 56.6
Chamber: Resonating
3.16 55.13
Purpose
2.4 23.16 55.9
3.14
Focusing the Spirals
50.11 56.3
Geometry
4.7
Healing
23.7
See also “Pyramids, Chamber: King”
Initiation
3.15-16 4.5 4.7
4.2
Positive Use: Energizing
See Volume 2
Positive Use: Meditation
56.3
Spiral, Zero
See Volume 2
Spiral, First
56.7
Spiral, Second
See Volume 2
Spiral, Third
See Volume 2
Quarantine (of Earth)
6.25 12.3 21.8
7.8 12.5-7 23.16
7.12 16.1-7 24.8
8.15 16.13 26.34
9.9 17.27-28
Questioner, The
4.13 37.3 42.14
11.12 38.1 44.12
Ra
Limits of Ra’s Knowledge
See Volume 2
INDEX 527
Ra’s Communication
1.1 15.1 23.16
1.10 15.13 28.16
2.0-2 17.2 37.4
3.6 18.1 48.3
8.31 21.1 55.7
9.3 22.26-27
Ra’s Form
6.4 23.6 27.2
8.20 23.16 41.4-6
Ra’s History
1.1 2.4 14.19-22
1.3 6.4-5 16.21
1.5 6.7 41.26
2.2 6.21-23
Ra’s Work on Earth
1.0-1 6.7 23.1-10
1.3 6.21-22 26.10-11
1.5 14.4-6 26.21-25
2.2 14.18 48.3
2.4 14.20
6.4 14.23-27
Ra Contact
Energizing the Instrument/Contact
1.11-13 17.44 33.1
3.4 18.4 55.1
5.3 18.26-27 56.2
11.2 19.22
15.23 22.29
Energizing the Instrument through Sexual
Energy Transfer
39.2 44.13 48.2
44.1
Maintenance
3.17 24.7 26.37
6.27-29 24.15 26.39
13.26 24.18 28.12
18.4 24.21 28.17
21.29 25.2-3 30.17
22.2 26.9 31.1
24.2-3 26.14 34.1
24.5 26.29 (Cont. …)
(… Cont.) 44.13 46.6
44.1-2 45.1-2
44.7-9 45.12
See also “Harmony”
Methodology
1.11-13 3.18 6.26
2.0 5.1 55.7
2.6 5.3
3.1-5 6.3
See also “Channel, Trance”
Pre-Requisites
1.11 12.1 37.3-5
2.0-1 14.25 39.9
6.20 36.21 53.2
Racial Mind
See “Mind, Racial”
Random
6.1 22.17 41.10
7.14 23.7 42.8
8.15 24.8 46.9
13.8 26.38 50.5
13.16-17 30.5 54.17
16.4-5 31.4-6
17.27-28 33.12
Reincarnation
4.9 17.1 33.6-7
6.11 17.41 33.12
6.13 18.15 34.17-18
9.2 19.9 35.1
9.7 20.12 40.16
9.21 21.9-10 43.11-12
10.1 21.28 48.7-8
10.4 22.6 50.5
10.12 22.15 50.7
10.15 23.12 52.7
11.11 31.4 54.23-24
11.29 31.8
15.20 31.10
See also “Seniority of Vibration”
Automatic Reincarnation
21.9 21.11 48.8
528 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Between Incarnations
10.12 22.6 48.7
21.9 43.12 50.7
Pre-incarnative Choices
8.21 50.5 55.1
31.6 53.1
35.3 54.21-22
Religion(s)
1.5 16.15-20 22.15
2.2 17.15 23.1
14.1 17.20 42.13
14.28 17.22 47.8
Repression
41.19 46.11-13 52.7
42.9-10
Reproduction
Cloning
18.15 18.20 24.6
Bisexual Reproduction
18.15-18 30.7 31.9
18.20 30.9-13 32.6-8
26.38 31.2-7 41.15
See also “Sexuality”
Responsibility
1.1 10.12 23.10
2.2 16.33 24.6
4.20 16.42 33.1
5.2 18.7-8 48.8
7.9 22.26
See also “Honor/Responsibility”
Responsibility, The Law or Way of
See “Law of Responsibility”
Rhythm of Reality
27.6-7 27.13
Robot
12.18-20
Roosevelt, Eleanor
35.1-3
Roosevelt, Franklin
35.1-3
Russia
8.6 17.3-5 21.24
10.15 17.7
Sacrifice
37.3 42.15 55.7
Human Sacrifice
23.16
Price
35.1 44.2
Saints Teresa, Augustine, Francis
22.15
Salt Cleansing
See Volume 2
Sanskrit
See Volume 2
Sasquatch
See “Bigfoot”
Schweitzer, Albert
34.10-11
Sciences
Astronomy
11.4 29.1-5 40.2
16.24-30 29.18-19 41.4
16.37-38 29.32
28.6-11 30.15-16
Biology
18.15 20.24 41.11-12
18.20 21.13 49.4
19.9-11 23.13
20.12-17 31.6
Evolution
9.4 16.28-29 27.8-9
9.16-17 16.37-38 28.6
13.16-21 21.13 (Cont. …)
INDEX 529
(… Cont.) 30.5-16 45.11
28.10-11 36.15 47.2
28.13-16 36.17 48.8
28.19-20 37.3 50.5
29.2 39.4 51.5
29.6-8 40.1-11 52.2
29.9-11 41.4 52.11
29.13 41.8-10 54.24
29.18-20 41.12
30.1 41.18
Physics
20.6-8 29.1 40.5-6
27.6 29.12 40.9-11
27.14-17 29.14-23 40.15
28.1-5 29.30 41.4-5
28.8 39.4-5 41.9
28.18 40.1-3 41.20
Scientists
8.6 17.8-9 39.4
9.16 26.20 41.12
11.22-29 28.5 44.12
Scribe, The
7.10 38.1 54.2-3
11.2
Seeker
7.17 17.30 56.3
15.13 50.2
See also “Seeking”
Seeking
1.0 11.28 20.27
1.7 12.14 22.17
2.2 14.14 23.1
2.4 14.19 23.8
2.6 14.26-27 23.10
3.4 15.7 26.8
3.9-10 15.12-14 26.38
4.14 16.11 27.13
7.15 16.22 29.16
7.17 16.32 29.18
8.1 17.2 29.27
10.12-14 17.20 29.29-30
11.17 17.30 30.7
11.20 18.5 (Cont. …)
(… Cont.) 41.6 51.1
31.3 41.14 53.8
31.9 43.31 54.3
32.9 48.6 56.3
36.14 49.6
37.4 50.11
See also “Seeker”
Self
1.10 16.50 34.6
3.10 16.56 34.9
5.2 17.2 36.5
10.14 17.18 40.12-15
11.28 17.30 41.21
11.31 17.43 42.11
12.10 18.6-7 48.6-7
12.31 18.12 53.9
13.21 21.9 54.7
14.14 26.38 54.27
15.7 32.14
15.14 33.14-17
Self-Acceptance
5.2 22.2 46.10
13.16 22.6 47.2
15.2 25.2 47.8
15.3 32.14 49.6
16.21 40.3 52.7
18.5 41.25
See also “Self-Worth”
Self-Conscious
Self-Consciousness, Self-Aware, SelfAwareness
13.21 30.1-2 41.16
14.1 34.14 41.19
15.12 35.4 41.21
19.3 36.14 48.8
19.11 40.3 50.5
20.4 41.10
Self-Worth
12.31 15.12 32.14
15.10
See also “Self-Acceptance”
530 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Seniority of Vibration
17.41-43 33.12-13 48.5
26.13 34.15-16 48.7-8
31.6 40.16
See also “Reincarnation”
Service to Others
7.15 22.5 42.20
7.17 25.1 43.19
10.1 25.5-6 43.8
11.20 26.38 44.1
11.21 30.1 44.8
12.9 30.2 44.15
12.13 31.3 45.1
12.15 31.4 46.7
12.26 31.9 46.9-10
12.31 33.9 46.13
14.13 33.11 46.16
16.7 33.19 47.3
16.11-12 34.2 47.6
16.30-32 34.9-10 49.3-5
16.59 34.14 50.6
17.2 34.16 52.3
17.23 35.8 52.7
17.30-34 36.17 52.11
18.6 38.1 53.6
19.14-15 38.7 53.17
19.17 39.11-12 53.22
20.9-10 42.9 54.21
20.27 42.18 54.25
See also “Positive Path”
See also “Polarity (in Consciousness)”
Service to Self
7.14-15 12.9 17.17
7.17 12.13-16 17.23
8.2 14.13 17.25
8.11-12 16.2 17.30-33
10.1 16.7-9 18.21
11.3 16.11-12 19.15
11.11-12 16.15 19.17
11.15-16 16.17 20.9-10
11.18 16.30-31 20.32
11.20-21 16.57 22.5
11.31 17.1 (Cont. …)
(… Cont.) 34.16 46.16
24.6 35.4-5 47.3-5
25.5-6 36.12 48.6
26.34 36.14 49.4
26.36 36.16-17 50.6
26.38 38.7 51.7
30.1 38.14 53.11
30.5 39.11-12 53.14
30.10 41.14 53.16-17
31.14 42.20 54.19
32.2 44.16 54.22
33.13 46.7 54.25
33.19 46.9-12 55.3-5
See also “Negative Path”
See also “Polarity (in Consciousness)”
Sexual Energy Transfer
See “Energy Transfer, Sexual”
Sexuality
19.22 32.2-11 46.12
25.1 39.2 48.2
26.38 41.5-6 53.14
30.10-13 44.1 54.25
31.2-16 44.13 55.6
Fusion
32.9-10 41.4-6
See also “Reproduction”
Signals and Personal Signs
22.1 44.3-6 44.10
Significator
See “Archetypes, Significator” (Vol. 2)
Silver Cord
See Volume 2
Silver Flecks
16.47-49 53.21
Simultaneity
36.4-5
INDEX 531
Shockley, Paul
27.1-2
Sinkhole of Indifference
3.6 20.17 46.16
17.33 40.16
19.18 46.9
See also “Polarity (in Consciousness)”
Sirius
8.22 38.7-8 51.2
Slavery
8.14 24.17 35.4
11.18 25.16 35.8
16.17 26.34 50.6
24.6 32.2 55.3
Social Memory Complex
1.5 12.26 36.1
2.0 14.7 36.22
3.6 14.18 37.7
3.10 14.28 38.6-8
3.11 14.32 38.14
6.4 15.18 41.26
6.16 16.13 42.6
6.23 16.21 43.13-15
7.2 16.32 45.4
7.8-9 17.13 45.11
7.14-16 18.6 46.17
8.2 18.13 47.2-3
8.11 19.7 48.6
8.18 21.1 52.3-5
9.9 22.1 52.9
10.1 23.16 53.1
10.7 25.5 53.7-8
10.12 25.9 55.4
11.3 27.1-2 55.7
11.16-17 33.21 56.4
Society
1.5 12.18 25.5
6.16 16.31 34.9-10
6.23 19.15 34.13
8.26 20.21 35.6
10.15 22.21 36.12
11.17 23.15 (Cont. …)
(… Cont.) 38.9 54.25
37.4
Solar System
General
6.4 10.16-17 29.4
6.9-10 11.4 30.14
6.24 13.15
10.1 13.23
Maldek
6.9-10 10.6-7 21.16
6.12-13 11.3 38.2
9.18 11.5
10.1 11.13
10.3 21.5-6
Mars
9.6-12 19.5 21.8
10.6 20.17-18 30.14
14.3 20.20
18.20 20.26
Saturn
6.8 9.4 23.16
7.8 22.17 30.14
7.12 23.6 53.3
Saturn, Council of
See “Council of Saturn”
Sun
2.2 23.6 40.1
2.6 23.16 41.4-5
10.17 29.1 41.7
11.4 29.3 54.4-5
13.5 29.5-6 54.7
16.35 29.10
23.1 30.14
See also “Logos, Local Sub-Logos”
Uranus
30.14
Venus
6.4-7 6.23 30.14
6.21 29.18 41.26
532 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Soul
10.1 26.21-22 47.15
12.14 34.10 54.15
14.3 44.10
Sound Vibration Complex
Vibratory Sound Complex
4.6 14.28 27.4
7.9
South America
1.5 14.4 22.7
2.2 20.38 23.16
8.13 21.24 24.4
10.15 21.28 45.4
Southern Cross
11.12
Space/Time
2.2 28.2 41.8
6.9 29.11-12 41.20
12.7 29.14 43.22
13.8 29.16-17 52.10
13.22-23 29.19 54.24
19.1 29.22 55.9
26.22 30.4
26.32 39.4
See also “Time/Space”
Spirit Complex
General
2.3 18.11 30.4-5
3.15 18.18-19 30.12-13
4.2 19.2-3 32.10
4.17-18 19.20-21 34.6
4.20 20.24 34.12
6.1 21.9 35.8
6.14 22.2 39.1
7.15 23.7 39.10
10.8 26.21-23 40.14
10.14-15 26.38 41.21
13.21 27.6 43.9
15.12 29.16 45.11
16.59 29.33 46.2
17.18 30.2 (Cont. …)
(… Cont.) 48.6 50.13
47.8 48.8 51.5
47.12-13 49.2 52.11
47.15 49.5 53.11
48.2 50.5
Spirit as a Shuttle
6.1 30.2 49.2
23.7
Spiritual Entropy
7.15 36.15 46.9
Spiritual Gravity
29.16-22 37.8 40.1
Spiritual Mass
Spiritual Density
27.6 36.8 39.4-5
29.18-19 37.6 40.1-2
30.16 37.8 52.12
Spontaneous Combustion
17.26-28
Star Wars (movie)
16.10
Starvation
42.7-8
Strength
12.31 35.1 52.2
18.19 38.5 53.22
26.38 39.4 54.29
27.15 39.10 55.4
28.13 42.12 56.6
29.10 51.1
31.3 51.8
Light/Dark Strength
Forces of Light/Darkness
24.8 35.8
INDEX 533
Subconscious
See “Unconscious”
Sub-Density
16.51 17.34-35 38.6
16.53 17.38-39
17.11-12 22.13
See also “Plane”
Sub-Logos
See “Logos, Sub-Logos”
Sumer
See Volume 2
Surrender
54.16
Tantric Yoga
See Volume 2
Taras Bulba
11.8-10
Tarot
See “Archetypes, Tarot” (Vol. 2)
Tau Cross
See Volume 2
Teach/Learning
1.10 9.3 17.37
2.1-3 10.6 22.26
2.6 14.11 42.2
3.4 14.28 42.20
3.6 15.13 43.18-19
4.19 17.2 43.29
6.1 17.17 47.8
6.3 17.20 48.3-6
See also “Learn/Teaching”
Telepathy
12.13 20.30 38.14
14.27 26.21
Television
34.13 42.2
Temptation
18.21 18.25
Ten Commandments
16.15 16.18 16.20
Tesla, Nikola
8.6 11.25-26 26.20
Thales
25.4
The Two Paths
16.31 39.12 54.25
19.16-19 46.10
20.9-11 46.16
See also “Polarity (in Consciousness)”
Third Density
6.6 18.7-9 30.10
6.15 19.4 33.9
10.3 19.9-11 36.1
11.17 19.13-15 36.17
13.21-23 20.18 38.6-7
14.3 20.21 40.7
16.2 20.24 41.14
16.21 20.26-27 41.16
16.39 21.9 42.3
17.35-38 30.1 48.6
See also “Density”
See also “Choice, The”
Third Density Life Span
14.11-12 21.9 23.13-14
20.12-17 22.3-8 43.11
20.23-25 22.28
Thought-Form
General
3.11-14 15.4 26.20
6.14 17.1 37.6
6.23 17.17 44.5
13.23 22.1
14.7 23.6
See also “Daydream”
See also “Fasting”
534 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
Thought-Form Entity or Projection
2.6 17.37 51.4
7.12 24.9 43.5-7
8.30-31 24.13 53.8-9
12.9 24.19 53.13-14
12.18 26.32
16.43-46 27.2
See also “Bigfoot”
See also “Men in Black”
Tibet
10.15
Time/Space
See also “Space/Time”
General (e.g., moment or duration of
time/space)
1.11 6.10 10.16
1.13 6.13 12.1
2.2 7.12 14.10
2.6 8.2 14.24
3.14 10.9-10
4.2 10.12
Time/Space Analog
32.12 48.7 51.10
Metaphysical
21.5 29.17 48.7
21.7 29.19 50.7
25.4 30.2 50.9
25.6 30.14 51.7
26.22 39.4 52.10
26.30 40.1 53.3
26.32 41.4 55.9
28.18 41.20
29.13 43.12
Totality, Mind/Body/Spirit Complex
See “Mind/Body/Spirit Totality”
Trance Channel
See “Channel, Trance”
Transform
Transmute
4.18 26.22 54.17
6.1 46.9 54.25
15.12 50.8
25.6 51.7
See also “Fasting”
Transformation (Archetype)
See “Archetypes, Transformation”
(Vol. 2)
Transient Information
Unimportant information
Specific information
3.6 29.24 43.7
6.25-26 30.8 51.1-2
17.21 37.4 53.3
26.36 39.4 53.18
27.3 39.6 53.24
Tree of Life
44.16
True Color
33.3-4 41.14 48.10
40.6 47.3 49.6
40.11 47.8 50.9
40.15 48.7 54.6
Tunguska
17.3
Tuning
Attunement
1.0 12.1 42.2
3.8 15.1 54.15-17
4.6 30.2 54.31-32
10.9 39.9
Turkey
10.15
INDEX 535
UFOs
6.21-25 24.20 38.7-8
7.12-14 26.20-21 38.11-13
8.2-32 26.32-33 51.2-4
12.2-12 26.36 52.10
23.3 37.5
Close Encounter
8.15-22 53.3-17
UFO Flap
12.8 48.5
UFO Mass Landing
16.8-9
Unconscious
Subconscious, Deep Mind, Deeper Mind
20.33 41.21 52.7
21.16 44.11 53.1
22.1-2 46.12 53.8
27.1 46.14 53.12-13
30.7 50.12 55.2
See also “Mind, Roots/Trunk of”
Understanding
1.7 15.18 28.5
3.8 16.32 36.10
4.19 16.38-39 47.6
5.1-2 16.59 49.5
6.14 18.6 54.7
10.8 20.24
14.10 28.2
Vibration of Understanding
13.23 16.50 26.12
16.32
See also “Density, Fourth”
Unity
See “Intelligent Infinity” and “One
Infinite Creator”
Unmanifested Self
Unmanifested Being
33.15-16 34.9 34.12
34.6-7
Upward Spiraling Light
See “Light, Upward Spiraling”
Ur
See Volume 2
Urantia Book
14.30
Uranus
See “Solar System, Uranus”
Van Tassel, George
14.12-13
Veil of Forgetting
12.28 36.16-17 50.7
16.2 36.19 52.8
21.9 48.6
30.4 48.8
Pre-veil Conditions
See Volume 2
Venus
See “Solar System, Venus”
Vibration
See also “Narrow Band Vibration”
See also “Sound Vibration Complex”
General
2.2 27.4 54.8
2.6 54.6
Basic or Core Vibration
20.6-7 29.11-14 40.9-11
27.14-16 29.23 40.15
28.2-4 40.3 41.8-10
29.2 40.5-6
For Energizing
1.12-13 11.2 33.3
3.18 17.11
Vibration of Density
1.1 6.14-16 10.4
2.2 8.15 (Cont. …)
536 THE RA CONTACT: TEACHING THE LAW OF ONE
(… Cont.) 17.11-12 32.12
13.23 17.15 33.20
16.2 17.21 40.16
16.41 19.9 53.3
17.1 27.13
Vibration of One’s Being
1.2 20.16-17 39.10
1.5 29.29 42.7
2.1 32.2 47.3
8.14 37.3 51.1
See also “Seniority of Vibration”
Planetary Vibration
12.27 16.61 49.8
12.30
See also “Planetary Consciousness”
Visions
Visionary Information
14.25 44.5 49.2
25.4
Visualization
1.13 49.8 56.3
42.13-15 50.8-9
Vital Energy
Vitality, Vital Force
13.24 22.29 33.1
15.1 23.6 44.1-2
15.23 24.1 44.7-8
17.14 25.1-3 44.13
18.3-4 26.38 48.1-2
18.26-27 26.40 53.1
19.22 29.33
Wanderer
2.2 16.59-61 36.24
11.25 17.8-9 37.2
11.29 17.11 42.16
12.26-30 17.18-19 45.3-7
12.32 23.6 48.7
13.23 26.13 52.8-9
14.18 26.15-16 53.7-13
15.20 32.9-11
15.25 36.16-18
See also “Brothers and Sisters of Sorrow”
War
Bellicose Action
8.16-17 22.5 34.12
8.19 23.15 34.14
9.10 24.4 34.17
9.18-19 24.17 35.1
10.1 25.4-11 35.8
10.15 26.25 38.9-10
18.25 32.2
20.21-22 33.15
Water
8.3 13.16 41.10
8.13 13.18 45.7
9.5 23.14 45.12
Blessed Water (for Cleansing or
Drinking)
1.12-13 2.6 3.18
Swirling Water
See Volume 2
Weapons (Particle Beam and
Psychotronic)
8.7
White Magic
See “Magic, White Magic”
Will
6.1 39.3 47.13-14
10.14 41.18-19 49.2
21.1 41.21-22 49.8
28.13-14 42.12-15 52.7
29.29 43.8 52.11
31.3 43.30-31 53.1
31.7 44.1 54.3
32.2 44.8 54.29
36.11 44.10 55.6
36.14 46.9 55.17
38.4 46.12 56.3
Williamson, George Hunt
12.1 15.18
INDEX 537
Window Effect
12.7 17.27 26.34
16.3
-
7 24.8
Wisdom
4.17 36.12 48.6
8.6 36.15
-16 50.6
16.50 42.6
-
7 51.10
22.6 43.15 52.9
25.9 44.1 54.17
30.4 45.11
33.20 47.5
Work
1.0 12.1 29.27
2.3 15.12 31.3
3.15 16.32 39.10
4.14 17.1 46.10
4.17 19.19 48.6
5.1
-
2 20.9
-10 50.5
6.1 22.29 56.3
9.2 26.38
9.18 27.5
-
7
Wrong
1.7 54.13 56.3
4.20
Yahweh
16.14 18.14
-24 24.9
17.17 24.6
Zeta Reticuli
See Volume 2
AFTERWORD
The 106 sessions of the Ra contact represent an extraordinary subset of
channeling in L/L Research’s long history. During those 106 sessions the
instrument was completely unconscious and, according to Ra, removed
from her body. This is in contrast to the great majority of L/L’s
channeling undertaken with a conscious vocal instrument, awake and
aware of the information coming through. That conscious channeling
continues unbroken into the present day.
L/L Research makes this book, every channeling transcript, and much
more available for free in its online library at the archive website
www.llresearch.org.
Other recommended resources for further study of The Ra Contact:
Teaching the Law of One include:
• The world’s best Law of One study tool: www.lawofone.info
• The Ra Contact audiobook narrated by Jim McCarty, available at
Audible.com.
• The actual recordings of the conversation with Ra, available for free
listening at www.llresearch.org and www.lawofone.info, and
combined with text at https://www.youtube.com/LLResearch.
• The Resource Series.
• Book V of the original published Law of One series containing
Commentary of the journey of conducting the Ra contact.
We do this work for L/L Research keenly aware of the worldly context. It
can sometimes seem to the sensitive seeker that the circumstances on our
planet are tinged by chaos, disharmony, and suffering. But if you know
where to look, and how to tune your senses, you’ll see that a
consciousness of love is growing all the time, inside of you, inside of
others.
Our message for each wanderer we meet is the same: You are not alone.
You are loved. You are here to assist with the transition to fourth density,
first and foremost simply by being your truest most authentic self.
We are honored to play a small part in contributing to that blossoming
awareness of love. We are grateful to help heal this planet alongside you,
one open heart at a time.
ADDITIONAL L/L RESEARCH PUBLICATIONS
Living The Law of One 101: The Choice
Written with the intent of creating an entry–level, simple to read report concerning
the core principles of the Law of One and Confederation philosophy in general, this
book takes the reader through a discussion of Law of One principles such as unity,
free will, love, light and polarity.
A Wanderer’s Handbook
A reference manual for spiritual outsiders. It explores the alienation that seekers
experience, the varieties of the pain of living, the healing of the incarnation, the
discovery of the life's mission, and how to live a devotional life in a busy world.
Secrets of the UFO
A summary of the 25 years of philosophical study that preceded the Ra contact.
The progression from physical sightings to metaphysical implications is carefully
traced and, in some respects, serves as an introduction to the Law of One series.
A Channeling Handbook
Written for channels and those who would like to improve their channeling. Topics
include: What is channeling? Why channel? Psychic greetings/attacks. Temptations
and the ethics of channeling. Channeling and Christianity.
Tilting At Windmills: An Interview with Carla & Jim
The transcripts of a seven-day interview with Carla Rueckert and Jim McCarty that
includes exploration of the Ra contact, the life story of L/L Research, personal
biography of its three founding members, and examination of spiritual principles
and philosophy.
On the L/L Research Website:
• More publications not listed above
• Over 1,500 channeling transcripts from 1974–Present
• A collection of interviews and speeches including rare gems with Don Elkins.
• The Light/Lines and Gatherings Newsletters
• Information from various past L/L Research gatherings and workshops
• An Origins section including the Brown Notebook which opened Elkins to
Confederation channeling.
• Transcripts and audio of L/L Research’s podcast In the Now.
• Over twelve translations and more being added.
• Forums, Blogs, Chatrooms, Seeker Connector, and more.
Hardcopy versions of L/L publications are available through the online store.